the unhappy voyage. giving an account of the royal anne galley, captain willis commander, which was split to pieces on the lizard rocks on the 17th of november, 1721, having on board the lord bellavon, who was going as governor to barbadoes, with several other persons of distinction, the whole number on board being 210, out of which there were only three saved; whose names are george hain, william galfry, and thomas laurence, a boy. to the tune of, women's work is never done, &c. o 'tis the sad and dismal story, brought from off the hazard rocks; the royal anne in her glory, there receiv'd a fatal shock: the winds and waves did both conspire, for to ruin all therein: oh bellavon! brave bellavon! most unhappy hath thou been. governor of barbadoes, he was falling bold and brave, little dreaming it was his fortune, for to have a wat'ry grave; with many more noble people, went to barbadoes in place of trust, but oh! their sands were but expiring, their time was come and they must, above two hundred souls were perish'd, in an infant all were lost, when the winds and waves were driven, on the stag rocks they did rest; oh! the dismal cries and screaming, 'twould have pierc'd a heart of stone, when the galley split to pieces, for to hear their pitious moan. of all that were on board the vessel, only seven poor souls survive, who on a wreck by the winds were carried, thro' the waves and billows roar: then praise the lord for his great mercy, ye that thus have been preferr'd, more than many more of your friends, willingly your maker serve. captain willis was commander, at this most unhappy time, vow'd to be attorney general, with the noble bellavon in their prime, where going over to settle, at barbadoes we do hear, but by the ocean they were follow'd, as they did their course steer. when a scene of dismal horror, there was a sight to see o'er, bodies floating on the ocean, by the waves were drove on shore, and the country people running, and the people that go to sea, struggling against the diftraction, 'tis the custom of the coast. one gentleman was drove on shore, 'bout whom they found a diamond pound, whose name is supposed to be galfry, by writings in his pockets found: likewise they say the lord bellavon, having on a diamond ring, like a mark in the floating ocean, did to shore with his body. oh! the grief and sad diffraction, which this accident hath brought, on the wives and near relations, of the persons that are lost. some for disasters, others fathers, brothers, kindred, and friends, with aking hearts, and weeping eyes, to think how from them they are rent. but now observe the dismal story, given by these three that's far'd, the noble captain willis, william galfry, and thomas laurence, a boy 'tis said, as to barbadoes we were sailing, bellavon, he did say, come noble boys and jovial sailors, happy may our voyage be. but drawing near unto the lizard, there was a rock begun to rise nothing then-but deflation. did appear before our eyes, such a dreadful scene of sorrow, sure before we never saw, oh! most unhappy bellavon! most unhappy hast thou been. captain willis cry'd brave sailors, do your best, or die we must, lord have mercy, now relieve us, in the troubles we are cast, save us at the time of danger, for death before our eyes appears, and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell down to prayer. then again came the fatal rocks, the royal anne galley was twain, two hundred souls aloud were crying, lord save us from the watry main, to see each for his life a straining, as the waves told their sad story, the galley in the deep a sinking, while dying groans did pierce the sky. isee the noble lord bellavon, climbing to the top-mast high, with his wives and near breeding, who likewise in the waves did die. at length the galley split in pieces, death put an end to all their woe, we these poor souls upon a wreck, with water and wind they were fro. at length unto the shore was driven, where the people took us in, we praised the lord for his great mercy, since we thus prefer'd have been, and to barbadoes safe have come, when the waves did us surround, and a many souls did perish, and before our eyes were drown'd. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, with their poor friends and neighbours, the children for their father dear, let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrows they are in, and think upon the lord bellavon, how unhappy he has been. a noble lady in the city, hearing of her husband's death, 'twould have mov'd a heart of pity, to hear the words she did expect, crying, oh! my dearest friend, is a wat'ry wave thy tomb, i'll search the deep to find my dear, o cruel death come feize me tooon. thus the raves in sad diffraction, in her bed with cords she's bound, crying now my dear i am lost, he is in the ocean drown'd; thus many a mournful widow, and babes fatherless are made, consider the poor children's sorrow, which poor sailors thro' do wade. many more that night did perish, in the storm as we do hear, as in the downs the fleet was riding, some lord bellavon did dare's, lord keep us safe, and such difficulties, deliver us from hidden death, and give us grace that we may serve, the mighty god while we have breath.