whereas the queen has been pleased to direct, that a monthly correspondence be established between this kingdom, and her majesties dominions on the continent of america, by packet-boats, which are now daily employed in the business which i aff place, and the several provinces, colonies, and settlements of new-england, east and west-jersey, pennsylvania and rhode-island, regular inland-boats are already settled, and others are about to be laid, through the whole of the interior north america; and for the more safe and expeditious conveyance of all letters and parcels, which shall be conveyed by means of the said packet-boats. these are therefore to give notice, that shortly a prefixed time will be published, when letters and packets will be taken in at the general post-office, and at the several post-offices throughout great-britain, and ireland, and a day be appointed each month, when they will be sent on board the packet-boats from the general post-office for bristol, from whence the packet-boats are to take their departure. the rates for the portage of letters and packets, to, and from the general post-office in london and new-york, being as follows. for every single letter, not exceeding \( \frac{1}{3} \) o one sheet of paper, for every double letter, not exceeding \( \frac{2}{3} \) o two sheets of paper, and in proportion to the same rates for every packet of letters. and for packets of any kind of greater weight, for every ounce the packet-boats are to be of the burthen of about eighty tons, built on purpose, and sailing, of strength to resist the seas, well mann'd, and commodiously contrived for entertaining passengers, who will be kindly received, and entertained on board, on eafe terms. the said packet-boats are permitted to carry out upon freight, the quantity of five tons in goods, and bring home ten tons, whereby all people may send small parcels to new york, or any other place from thence by land-carriage, and be accommodated therein at the lowest rates. those who may desire particularly informed by william warren, undertaker of the said packet-boats, in crown-court, in gracious street, london. printed by j. sewle, in white-hart-court in gracious-street.