the gentlewoman's pelks of two eggs &c one mels of draught, and so many of lets according to thy quantity of your ale: beat them very well, and take away the skin of the pelks, and when the ale boys put them in, and keep them stirring continually: and when it hath smelt a while; sweeten it with sugar; and if it be to eat, cut two or three rolls of rye to bread, take them dry, and put them to the candle, but if it be to drink put in none. to stew beef. take a good rump of beef cut from the bones, shred turneps and carrets small, with spinage and lettice, put all in a pan and let it stew four hours with so much water, and a quart of white-wine as will cover it, some pepper and salt: when it is skewed then put in a wine-glass full of good elder vinegar, and serve it with stippits. to boyl a gammon of bacon. water your gammon of bacon twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep kettle with sweet hay, let it boil softly six or seven hours, and then take it up with a scummer and a piats, and take off the skin whole, then stick your gammon full of cloves, and strew on some grols pepper, then cut your skin like sippits to garnish your gammon: and when you serve it, stick it with bay-leaves. cabinet unlocked. to boyl brawn. water your brawn twenty-four hours, wash and scrape it four or five times, then take it out of the water and lay it on a clean table, and throw an handful of salt on every collo, then bind them up as fast as you can with hemp or hals, and put them in your kettle, when the water boyleth, and the scum ariseth, take it way: let it boil so tender that you may thrust a straw through it, then let it cool till the next morning, and serve it. to make a white-pot. take the best and sweetest cream, and boil it with good rose of sugar and cinnamon, a little rose-water: then take it from the fire and put into it clean pickt rice, but not so much as to make it thick, and let it keep therein till it be cold: then put in the pelks of six eggs and two whites, currants, nutmeg and salt: then put it into the pan of pot, as thin as if it were a cupcake, and