a letter from jamaica, to a friend in london, concerning kid-napping. sir, yours found me a little indispos'd; but yet i made the best enquiry my health and opportunity would give me leave to anfwer your defires. the relation you have fent me of the great abuses in the spiriting away of children, makes a very sad story; and muft needs be a lamentable grief to their parents that have lost them. you fhould have done well to have fent me the names of thofe that are missing; or if you think fit to have me look any further into this bufiness, pray let me receive your further directions at your beft leisure. we are not without apprehensions here in this place for the divisions in england; i wish we may yet live to meet again in comfort and peace. the paper which i fend you here enclosed, is all i was able to do in fo short a time; but upon the truth of it you may depend. i do not know but you may find in this lift fome unhappy people that you look for; and it would bew ell if you made a publication of it in one of the comon news papers: mr. janeway, or mr. curtis, i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be fo notifed, as that any of thofe good people that have loft their children, may underftand whither to repair for fatisfaftion. if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your felf to mr. john wilmore in jewen-freet, who is a planter himfelf, and knows all the tricks of thofe raflcs. besides that, he is a man of bufeſs in the city, a large acquaintance, a true protestant, and (if i am not miftaken) a common-council-man. he is very industrious and charitable befide; and if there fhould be occasion, he is as likely to affift you as any man i know: tho' it were to go as far as the hope upon the errand, to fave a poor child from want, and slavery. i need fay no more to you, than that if you have his friendfhip, he can tell you all the ways of the tra- pons: how they take up children, invigle them away, and the convicances they have for the concealing of them. thefe kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compafion; that they could not get quit of him, or perfiade him to come back it may be, tho' he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you muft get a difcreet juftice to examine the mater; fo the refi i leave to your difcretion. little will takes to his bufiness very well; and i hope his friends will have comfort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance in your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults; for i muft immediately take my leave of you, and subscribe my felf your affectionate kinfman and servant, t. m. if any person named in the following lift, fhall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be left with mr. walter davis, in amen-corner, who will give directions how to make a further enquiry. <table> <tr> <th>the number of whites.</th> <th>the number of whites that dyed in my time.</th> </tr> <tr> <td>1. joseph ruffel.<br>2. william burne.<br>3. george shadlote.<br>4. urban rowy.<br>5. andrew reddal.<br>6. william pollard.<br>7. john brown.<br>8. richard sevior.<br>9. james durham.<br>10. george french.<br>11. thomas woodcock.</td> <td>thomas hough.<br>peter peterfon.<br>john gwartwrite.<br>thomas davies.<br>samuel hodgley.<br>sold in my time.<br>thomas martin.<br>thomas barber.<br>free.<br>william ward.<br>rickhard barret.<br>loft at law<br>with fountain.</td> </tr> <tr> <td>total of the whites — 11.</td> <td>5<br>3<br>2</td> </tr> </table> jamaica, decemb. 30. 1681.