iii. a letter of that curious naturalist mr. henry barham, r. s. s. to the publisher, giving a relation of a fiery meteor seen by him, in jamaica, to strike into the earth; with remarks on the weather, earthquakes, &c. of that island. sir, according to your request i have collected what i can remember, relating to a meteor i saw in jamaica about the year 1700, as i was riding one morning from my habitation situated about three miles north-west from st. jago de la vega: i saw a ball of fire, appearing to me of the bigness of a bomb, swiftly falling down with a great blaze. as i thought it fell into the town; but when i came within a quarter of a mile of the town, i saw many people gather'd together a little to the southward in the savanna, to whom i rode up, where they were admiring at the ground's being strangely broke and plough'd in by a ball of fire, which, as they said, fell down there. i observed there were many holes in the ground, one in the middle of the bigness of a man's skull, and five or six smaller holes round about it, of the bigness of a man's fist, and so deep (especially the biggest) as not to be fathom'd by what long switches or sticks they had at hand. i did not hear that any was so curious as to make any farther search: it was observ'd, that the green gras was perfectly burnt near the holes, and a strong smell of sulphur remain'd thereabouts for a good while after. note that we had a terrible rainy night before, with much lightning and great thunder-claps, which we have