away i waft with teares by night in vaine, teares, sighes by night, by day encrease this paine. mine eyes no eyes, but fountains of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moyt my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my fears, my fears no fears, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my fears, my heart, my teares, mine eies are blinde, dride, spent, palt, wasted with my cries. and yet mine eies, though blind, see cause of griefe, and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine: and yet my heart, though spent, attends reliefe. and yet my fears, though past, encrease my paine. and yet i liue, and liuing feel more smart, and smarting, cry in vaine, breake heavy heart. xxxii. canzonet. desires government. where wit is over-rulld by will, and will is led by fond desire, there reason were as good be still, as speaking, kindle greater fire, for where desire doth bear the sway, the heart must rule, the head obay. what boot is the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to shape their course: booke ii. of canzonets. when he that seeks will have his will, and drive them where he list pe force. so reason shewes the truth in vaine, where fond desire as king doth raigne. xxxiii. canzonet. lones properties. twixt heat and cold, t'wixt death and life, i freeze and burne, i live and die: which joynly worke in me such strife, i live in death, in cold i fly. nor hot, nor cold, nor live, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. first burning heat sets all on fire, whereby i seeme in flames to fry: then cold despair kills hot desire, that drenched deepe, in death i ly. heat drives out cold, and keepes my life; cold quencheth heat, so end of strife. the lesse i hope to haue my will, the more i feele desire encreate, and as desire encreaseth still, despair to quench it doth not cease. so liue i as the lamps, whose light oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright.