they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. where they imagine to have beene the beginning of making the world; and that beside the four elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heauen and starres consist. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. the indian germans. the k germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored amongst them: especiall'y such of them as live in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of those wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more then with ceres. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by messengers; and doe pacifie the angry gods, as is supposed, by their holiness. next in honor to these, are certaine mendicants, which live of rice and bulky, which any man at the first asking giveth them, together with entertainment into their houes. these profess skill in phycicke, and to remedie diseases, wounds, and infirmitie; very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanter and diuiners, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more civil and secular, in their life professing like pietie and holiness. women also are admitted unto the fellowship of their studies in this philosphy, not to their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of these brachmanes, the one an old man shaven, the other young with long hair, which sometimes retired to the marketplace, and were honored as counsellors, and freely tooke what they pleased, of any thing there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were annointed with sesamistyle, wherewith, and with honey, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to alexanders table, where they gave lessons of patience 1: and after going to a place not off, the old man lying downe with his face vpward, sustained the sunne and shewes terrible violence. the younger standing on one foot, held in both his hands a piece of wood of three cubits lifted vp, and shifted feete, as the other was weare: and so they continued every day. the young man returned home afterward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when he was by some reproved, he answered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercise, which he had vowed. oneferitus saith, that alexander, hearing of some religious obscennity, which went naked, and exercised themselves to much hardship, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would have any thing with them, to come unto them; sent him unto them, who found fifteen of them twentie furlongs from the citie, each of them observing his owne gesture of sitting, standing, or lying naked, and not stirring till sun-setting, in that vnsupportable heat, at which time they returned into the citie. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into persia, where beginning to be sick, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himself in a golden chaire, and caused fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander in babylon, the place fallal to alexanders death. alexianus 2 saith, that this was done in a suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cyprisse, mirtle, laurell, and other sweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercise of running, he placed himself in the middle, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne shinning on him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the signe which he gave to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any stirring till he was dead; alexander himself admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told oneferitus of a golden world, where meale was as lemi-full as dust, and fountains streamed milke, honey, wine and oyle. which country, by men turned into wantonnesse, jupiter altered and detained, imposing a life of hasticke and labour, which while men followed, they enjoyed abundance; but now that men begin to surfeit and grow disobedient, there is danger of vnfuller destruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, strip himselfe, and lye naked vpon these stones. but mandanias, 3 another of them, reproved calanus for his harshlines, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, said that they mused their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds against passions. for his n-