cap. 13. some were banged, some beaded, some were burned, some drowned, some devoured of wilde beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more savage then beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoiced they suffered for conscience, and for god. attalus' and alexander were twice bayted with wilde beasts, to be torn in pieces by them, (as eusebius reports) attalus elcapping the beasts, was referred to other torments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did hee bear all. macedonius, theodulus, and tatianus laid upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus arethbusius was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and stung to death with wasps, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in his diocess, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and stung with wasps he did account farre more detirable, that he might preserve his conscience in puriitie and peace, then to bee eaten up of horror, and stung with hornets, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stoppt up in lakes, or caves artificially made clofe, which lakes, or ditches, were filled with a companie of dormise, kept hungry to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and foot, that they could not keep off those hunger-starved creatures, which were kept without meat also purposely, that they might fasten upon the bodies of those godly men; which lingring and miserable death they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the historian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially stoppt, and to be eaten up alive with thos. vernun, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this fore of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an infernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stoppt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, laetantius saith not onely the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (saith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could fetch so much as a groan from them: which the stoutest theeves and malefactors among their persecutors could not undergo, but they would roare and crie out through impatience, and disabilitie to endure them. the suffering, or, passive conscience. and foot, that they could not keep off those cap. 13. hunger-starved creatures, which were kept mag.cent. without meat also purposely, that they 4.cap.3. might fasten upon the bodies of those godly ex theodo- men; which lingring and miserable death reto. they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the historian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially stoppt, and to be eaten up alive with thos. vernun, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this fore of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an infernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stoppt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, laetantius saith not onely the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (saith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could fetch so much as a groan from them: which the stoutest theeves and malefactors among their persecutors could not undergo, but they would roare and crie out through impatience, and disabilitie to endure them. latrones, & robusti corporis vi- ni ejusmodi laceratio- nes perferre nequeunt, exclaimant, &c. geminus edunt; nostri autem (ut de viris raceam) pueri, & mulierculae torores suos taciti vim- cant, & exprimere illis gemitum nec ignis potest. la&.i.5.cap.13. but