ture, and hastneth on old age and death. sperme or seede of generation is the onely comforter of nature, which wilfully shed or lost, harmeth a man more, then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how winelesse batchelers, and husbandleffe maides, should drive away their uncleane dreaming of venery at nights. first, they must refraine from wine, and venrous imaginations, and not vse to lyce in soft down beds. secondly, they must addicte themselves to read the bible and morall philofophy. thirdly, they must exercise often their bodies. lastly, if none of these preuaile, let them vse the seed of agnus castus, in english parke seed, and they shall seele a strange effect to follow. of bathes. chap. 5. what is the vse of bathes? cold and naturall bathes are greatly expedient for men subject to rheumes, drop-sies and gouts. neither can i easilly expresse in words how much good cold bathes doe bring vnto them that vse them: howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man disfempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fasting, or through violent exercise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholesome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lec made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountaine water vpon your head. then let your head be dried with cold towels. which sodaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mightily terrifie you, yet nevertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heat is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the memory is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much auail the eyesight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall bathing is very expedient and wholsome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the juice of wormwood and wild mallowes, one ounce