gods word the safest guide. cannot hate them, but him is hated: the reason followeth, not for injury but for innocency; not for falsehood but for truth: he testified that the works thereof were evil. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so small account, but because the world of the vnregenerate lieth in wickednes, and faith to carnall affections bringeth little contentment? how can it be that oppressours, extortioners, visurers, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertaine the gospel: since zaccheus must divide his goods, mathew must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vse this world as if they vsed it not? how hard therefore will it be for such as trust in vncertaine riches, to subiect themselves to this life of faith? may not gods ministers take vp a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to everlasting blisse plainly beaten foorth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how sluggish are our common professours, that cannot watch one hour? gods word the safest guide. house? and how faithlesse are those backsliding hypocrites, as if the unchangeable possessours of heaven and earth were vnfaithfull, or vnable to recompence and fully reward his faithfull people? thus we see, that straight is the way, and small is the number that go it. ephraim is an vnruly heifer that will not be tamed. ever haue gods saints bene like the shaking of an olive after the vintage. wicked men are mad men; they will not be ordered; they are deaue men, they will not heare, charme the charmer never so wisely. if that be true which is not done of faith, how wofull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor believe, being blinded and dissolute: having from their monage to their old age wandred from the waies of god, being seuen fold more the childe of hell then they were in their mothers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were never enlightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driven me into such a narrow straite, & so paled me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the novelties of the athenians,