196 beaunifying waters, all cankers, and cure a flinking breath, and prefeve the teeth from rottennets. 56. to procure an excellent colour and complexion in the face, used by the c. of s. take the juice of hyflop, and drink it in a morning falling, half a dozen spoonfuls in ale, warm; it will procure an excellent colour, is good for the eye-light, defrothyeth worms, and is good for the stomack, liver, and lunge. 57. to keep the tenth white, and kill worms. take a little salt in a morning fafing, and hold it under your tongue till it be melted, and then rub your teeth with it. 58. to procure beauty, an excellent wife. take four ounces of sublimate, and one ounce of crude mercury , and beat them together exceeding well in a wooden mortar, and wooden pettle; you muff de oyls, and powders. 197 do it at leaf fix, or eight hours, then with often change of cold water, take away the falt from the sublimate, change your water twice every day at leaf, and in seven or eight days it will be dulciified, and then it is prepared; lay it on with oyl of white poppy. 59. a beauty-water for the face, by madam g. take lyte that is not too strong, and put two peels of oranges, and as much citron-peel. blossifs of comomile, bay-leaves, and maiden-hair, of each a handful, of agrimony two or three ounces; of barley-trawch chop in pieces, a handful, as much fenugreek, a pint of vineleaves, two or three handfuls of broomblossions; put all the into the lyte, and mingle them together, and fo wath the head therewith, put to it a little cinamon and myrrh, let it thand, and wath your face therewith every evening: it is good to wath the head, and to comfort the brain and memory. k3 60.againf