# (6008) thefe trees are exceedingly different amongst themselves; for, some shoot up in 2 or 3 bodies; others in one, as this. their leaves are many of them dead, and most difcolour'd, unlefs on very young trees. they are not at all beautiful, nor fo a-greeable to the eye, asthe fruit is to the palate of them that love chocolatto. the number of cods the tree produces, is uncertain: but we reckon, a bearing tree yields from 2 to 8 pound of nuts a year; and each codd contains from 20 to 30 nuts. the manner of curing them is; to cut them down when they are ripe, and to lay them to sweat 3 or 4 days in the codds; which is done by laying them on heaps. after this they cut the codds, and take out the nuts, and put them into a trough cover'd with plantan-leaves, where they sweat again about 16 or 20 days. the nuts that are in each codd, are knit together by certain fibres, and have about them a white kind of pulp, that's agreeable to the palate. by the turning and wetting their little frings are broken, and the pulp is imbibed and mingled with the substance of the nut. after this, they are put to dry 3 or 4 weeks in the sun, and then they become of a reddish dark colour, as you fee, and fo are cured. what is remarkable in this fruit is, that the codds grow only out of the body or great limbs and boughs; and that at the fame time, and in the fame place, there are bloffoms, young and ripe fruit. these trees bear at different times; the greatest crop, at most of our cacao walks is in december and january: but at one of colonel aodifords walks, whence this tree was taken, they bear moft in may; yet its not above 5 miles from thofe walks, which bear alwaies in december: but thofe that bear then, have come fruit in may; as the other have in december. it's planted first in the nut, alwaies under flide: somed o is under caffive; others, under plantan-tree, and fome in the woods. the spaniards ued a certain large hady plant, calpd by them madre di cacao : we only th'others s and feldoom tranfplant, only where it fails, a it doth many times in op- a, poor and dry lands : for, this tree requires to be hel tcr'd