# a letter from jamaica, to a friend in london, concerning kid-napping. sir, ours found me a little indifpos'd ; but yet i made the beft enquiry my health and opportunity would give me leave to anfwer your defires. the relation you have fent me of the great abufes in the spiriting away of children, makes a very fad story ; and muft needs be a lamentable grief to their parents that have loft them. you should have done well to have fent me the names of thofe that are mifting ; or if you think fit to have me look any further into this bufinefs, pray let me receive your further directions at your beft leifure. we are not without apprehenfions here in this place for the divitions in england ; i with we may yet live to meet again in comfort and peace. the paper which i lend you here enclofed, is all i was able to do in for short a time; but upon the truth of it you may depend. i do not know but you may find in this lift fome unhappy people that you look for; and it would bew ell if you made a publication of it in one of the comon news papers: mr. janeway, or mr. curtis, i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be fo notified, as that any of thofe good people that have loft their children, may understand whither to repair for fa-tisfa-tion. if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your felf to mr. fohn wilmore in fewen-street, who is a planter himself, and knows all the tricks of thofe rafcals. befides that, he is a man of bufinefs in the city, a large acquaintance, a true proteftant, and (if i am not miftaken) a common-council-man. he is very induftrious and charitable befide; and if there should be occasion, he is as likely to affit you as any man i know: tho it were to go as far as the hope upon the errand, to fave a poor child from want, and slavery. i need fay no more to you, than that if you have his friendship, he can tell you all the ways of the trapan: how they take up children, inviegle them away, and the conveniences they have for the concealing of them. thefe kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compaffion; that they could not get quit of him, or perfuade him to come back it may be, tho he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you muft get a difcreet juftice to examine the mater; fo the reft i leave to your difcretion. little will takes to his butinefs very well; and i hope his friends will have comfort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance in your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults; for i must immediately take my leave of you, and subfcribe my felf your affectionate kinfman and servant, t. m. if any perfon named in the following lift, shall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be left with mr. walter davis, in amen-corner, who will give directions how to make a further enquiry. # the number of whites. 1. fofepb ruffel. 2. william burne. 3. george shallitoe. 4. urban rony. 5. andrew reddal. 6. william polliard. 7. john brown. 8. richard sevitor. 8. richard sebitor 9. james durham. io. george french. ii. thomas woodcock. total of the whites 11. # the number of whites that dyed in my time. thomas hughes. peter peterson. john gwartwrite. thomas davies. samuel hodgley. sold in my time. thomas martin. thomas barber. free. william ward. richard barret. loft at law with fountain.