# prefervatives against the plague. 26trevelations 189 27. perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficialparts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, perficial parts, and there an excellent good powder to expell the plague, which also pro b. roots of genian, bittanie, petafis, ana, 3.i. roots of tormentill, dittander, ana, 3 iii. red sanders 3. f. fine pearle tormentill, dittander, ana, 3 iii. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts. ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra of both forts, ana, 3i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra. of shaving of a unicorns horn, succini, ana, 3.f. leaves of gold and silver, ana, one and half in number, make all these in fine powder, every one feverall by himself, make all these in fine powder, every one feverall by himself, and then mix them all together, and give thereof 3.i. or 3. iii. and then mix them all together, and give thereof 3.i. or 3. iii. and then leffer as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabiasis, more or lette as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabiasis, more or lette as occasion requireth, either in or lette, scabiasis, and you must add a little sirrup of lemons, or four citrons, and give it warm, the bolamoniack must be pounded flammal, then washed in scabiasis water, and to dryed. another good powder. r. leaves of dittander, called dihami cretici, roots of tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittanic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittamic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittamic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittamic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3.1. tormentil, bittamic, pimpernell, gentian zedoiar, ana, 3. # prefervatives against the plague. ana 3 i. mafick, safton, ana, halfa drachm. bolarmoniack prepared as beforefaid, 3 ii. all thee must be made in fine pouder, and to that together you may give two fruples, or one drachm thereof with any of the aforeaid wagers. a good opiat to expell vencome, and provake swest. conferve of the flours of furrage, buglofs, violets, bitranie, ana, 3. ii. tereva triade 3. ii. red tereva figillata, tereva lemnia, mithridate, ana 3. i. shaving of ebonie, and harts-horn, orient pearls, roots of tormentill, ana 3 i. shaving of unicorns horn, root of angelica, and half a drachm. sirrup of the juice of small sorrell and buglofs, ana, fo much as thall fuffice. mix all the together in the form of an opiat, then take the fame opiat, one drachm and half. scabios water, balm water, and $\frac{3}{2}$ ii. water, and $\frac{3}{2}$ ii. diffolve the opiat in the waters, and drink it warm, then walk a little upon it, and then go to bed and sweat. another excellent good means to expell the venom, and procure. take a great white onyon, and pick out the coar or middle of him, then fill the hole with good venus triacle, or andromachus triacle, and aqua vitae, then fop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and roft him in the hot ashes untl. till he be foit, then firein it strongly through a cloth, and. till he be foit, then firein it strongly through a cloth, and. give it the fick to drinke, and the reft that remains, pound it. final, and apply it to the fore, and sweat upon it. finally, and apply it to the fore, and swear upon the law. now when he hath taken any of the aforeaid cordials, if he chance to vomit it up again, then wath his mouth with rocfwater and vinegar, and then give him more of the fame again, which must be proportioned according to the fame again, which must be proportioned according to the quantity vomited, for if all were vomited, then give fo much quantitive vomited, for if all were vomited, and more : (if leffé) then according to the quantity vomited, and if he vomit that alfo, then give him more, and fo continue it. hh to