treafon, and more barbarous and cruell then the maflacre of france, being deftroyers of their own liberties, and fup planters and overthrowers of the fame religion that they themselves pretend to proteffe. the agreenient betwixt the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about eleven of the clock on the tuesday night, a houfe neere unto froome gate was to be blowne up, which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onet; who against that hour were to draw downe unto the city, and prince robert with his army came fongh as the gallows: a bull at st. iohns church on a hill above the gates was to roule, another bell at st. michael's church upon the hill above the green was to ring, to give notice to the malignants of this towne to rife in an infant; fufficient parties were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without oppofion; for that purposfe there were in readineffie in the houfe of mafter george butcher of chriftmaffe street, a new made captaine for this defigne, about 160 armed men, and in the houfe of mafter robert teomans (who was one of the sheriffes of this city the laft yeere, foure and twenty men ready to put themselves in armes which there they had, the one to fupprife the maine guard, the other, the guard at froomegate, and to let in thore bloud fuicking chavaliers; two other bells were to toule at the famc time to give notice to the malignants to rife in all parts of the city. both monday and tuesday, white peeces of incle were given to divers, and to the better fort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their bofoams and hats for diftin'dion,and all that had not the word charles, or thofe marks, were to be put tothe fword, muthred and destroyed, befides divers houfes in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were defigned to utter ruine and defruotion. i he bufiniffe is not, as yet fully examined, but this and much more is confused by the principle and maine plotters of this wicked deligue: i want time to give you a perfect relation, you thall speediy have a fuller and better account, as foone as we have a little recovered our felves out of thefe ditracions; for the prefent, here is enough to flire you up to jown with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodneffe and mercy to us, and to give god his glory and praye for this wunderfull and gracious deliverance, that hath preferred fo many thouands of us that were innocent, and fold, and almost given up into the hands of thefe cruell and bloud thirty men. the cheifexors of this mifchievous design were the aforesaid robert teomans, and george butcher, mr. john taylor, mr. colestone, and his brother, mr. fitzberbert, two colons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple, and captain cole of st. augustins, who with at least one hundred more aotors and accelfories, are already taken and impitfoned in the castle, and hourly more are discovered and fecured, many of them upon examination have confeffed the plot to be in manner as before is described ; and that threecore families of men, women, and children were to be put to the fword, without quarter, given in upon a note. twogoods houfe was fearched and therein were found many papers that did difcover the whole plot,and between three and four thouand pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, befides divers infu-trments to murther and deftroy with cruelty, fuch as wee never faw before. a poetscript. prince rupert and that army marched away as fooneas their plot was difcovered, a3 tbe