# the gentlewomen yels of two 1x 2 are 0els o2 daaught, and fa naoe 1eis accoing to the granttp of yee 3ie : bwt them bery well, an to kx iay the skin of the yelks, wot hcnse 3ie boys put them in, and aen eon fang continually: and when it is hahn mth n arthile, fouten it with sngar ; and if it be to eat, cut tioo a thzde tnsf of 4t to baeu, taf them byy, and put them to the c anle, but if it bt to dtak pa in con to stew beef. take a good ruaip of defect from the bones, d:ed tcurnepis and carrets (mall, with pinnage and lettice, put all in a pan and let it new four honrs wth to much witer, and a quart of 4hits-wins as will cober it, fome pppse and salt: when it is defewed then put in a wine-glaf's full of good cider winegar, and ferbs it with stp-pits. to boyle a gammon of bacon. water your gannon of bacen twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep kettle with (wat) bay, let it bohl softly fir s2 beben hours, and thon take it up with a scummer and a piats, and take off the skin wogle, thon fick your gam # cabinet unlocked. gammon fall of globs, and frew on some grols pepper, then cut your skin like fippit to garnith gour gammon: and when you lerdge it, atck it with nap-lead. toboylbrawn. hafer puer bawn tienty-four hours, wth and tpep it four 2 fbs times, then take it out of the water and lap it on a clean table, and thzaw an handful of salt on ebary colo, then bind them np as faa as you can with hemp o2 dls, an put them in your kettle, when the daer togeth, and the fcarr anfath, take it w: g : let it bopl fo tenar that you may ut a graph thsagbit, then let i cool tril the next moing, and to make a white-pot. take the ball and (in)ce of cream, and boy! it with good nose of ugar and cinnaton, a little rale water: then take it from the fire and put into it clean picket rice, but not to much as to make it thick, and let it fep therein tell it be cold: then put in the pelks of fice egs and two whites, currants, put- meg and salt: then put it into the pan o? pot, as thiu as if it were a cuffara. #