texture, a thinning flowy whiteners, and fo transparent that common print may be read through the thickest part of a large loaf. this sort of fugar may be licented with different flowers, by frowning the flowers on the moist cloths, and renewing them as often as the cloths are changed, and twice a day before: the water, filtering through the cloth, carries down with it those particles of the flowers in which their fragrance refides, and leaves them in the fugar. labas relates, that twelve hundred pounds of refined fugar yield only five hundred and forty-fix of fugar royal. the french prepare, in imitation of the royal, a fort of fugar which they call fucre tabpe. this is no other than the common clayed fugar rafped very fine before drying, and rammed into small moulds which have been previously moistened with water. this fort of fugar looks very beautiful: but as its particles have no natural union, they separate upon the leaf moisture, and run into melafles. # 3. of sugar-candy. sugar-candy is made from the mufcavado or clayed fugars, by diffolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification fetting them to crystallize or shoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnished with a number of small flocks laid across for the sugar to shoot upon: their lower aperture is almost closed, fo as to fuffer the part which remains liquid to filter through very flowly. when the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it is carried with all possible expedition into an hot stove, immediately poured into the moulds, and the stove kept strongly heated. the sugar concretes upon the flocks into crystalline maffes, of a white or brown colour, according as the sugar was pure or impure. # appendix. # the art of fermenting and diffilling melafles, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit. 1. of the fermentation of the cane juice in general. all kinds of sweet vegetable juices are capable of being converted, by means of flow fermentation, into vinous liquors, which may either be preferred in that form, or made to yield by diffillation an inflammable spirit; by a haftv fermentation, or a flow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars. the native juice of the fugar cane, as it is eminently sweet, is likewise in a particular manner dispoed to ferment; but without a great deal of addrefs runs, beyond the proceeds of vinous fermentation, into an acetous flate. after it has undergone a degree of fire, it becomes left susceptible of these changes; and does not ferment readily without the assistance of fuch matters as promote this operation: fuch is the flower or head which arises upon liquors during fermentation, &r.