# (6) culture, and husbandry bee maintained and duly kept. 8. item, in every county there shall be corronors, high sheriffs, high conftables, petty conftables, and goalors, who are to do their respective offices as accuftomed; the high sheriffe to be confirmed or nominated by the supreme councell out of three to be prefented by the county councell, and the high sheriffe is required to execute the commands, orders, and decrees of the provincial and county councell. 9. item, in cities and towns corporate justice is to be done, and the lawes executed as is accuftomed. 10. item, in every county the high sheriff shall be provost marfhall, and flhall have power to execute a lay man not worth five pounds, and none other, for murder, man-laughter, burglary, theft, robbery, or other capitall offence, provided the party to be executed may have foure and twenty hours time to prepare his foule; and that the supreme or provincial councell flhall and may name more provost marfhalls, as they flhall think expedient, qualified with the like authority. ii. item, it is further ordered, that no temporal g o v e r n m e n t or jur i f i d i t i o n f h a l l be a f t u m e d, k e p t, o r e x e r c i f e d in this k i g o n d o m e, o r w i t h i n any c o u n t y o r p r o v i n c e t h e r c o f, during the fe troubles, oth e r then is b e f o r e e x p r e f f e d, e x c e p t f u c h j u r i f i d i t i o n and g o v e r n m e n t a s i s, o r f h a l l be a p r o v e d by this g e n e r a l a f f e m b l y, o r t h e s u r p l e m c o u n c e l l. 12. item, it is further ordered, that whofoever hath entred, since the first day of october 1641. or thall hereafter, dur ing the continuance of the warre in this kingdom, enter into the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, at or immediately before the first day of october, either by himfelle or his under tenants, or by receiving the rents, iflues, or profits thereof, shall immediately restore, upon demand, the paid poffeilion to # (7) to the party or parties fo put out, with fuch reasonable dam- mages, as the councell provincial or supreme thall think fit; and if the party refufe to refoze the faid poffeifion as aforefaid, upon demand of the party fo put out, his heires or affignes, made to the faid poffeifor, his servants, or adherents in the premises or publication of this order within the parikh where fuch land lieth, that upon his or their denial thereof, or default therein, he, his heires and affignes shall be for ever after debarred and fecluded from all and every right, title, interest, and demand which he or they may make or pretend to all or any the faid lands, tenements, or hereditaments ; and if after fuch denial or default made, the faid party, his heires or affignes thall nor immediately restore the poffeifion of the faid lands, tenements, or hereditaments fo gained to the party grieved, his heires or affignes, that he, they, and his or their adherents in the premises, thall be declared and pro ceeded with as enemies. provided, and fo it is meant, that if any of the partiess fo put out be declared a neuter or enemy by the supreme or provincial councell; then the party who gained the poffeifion, as aforefaid, thall give up the poffeifion to fuch perfon or perfons as thall be named either by the faid councell provincial, or supreme councell, to be difpofed of towards the maintenance of the general cause, upon the paine and penalty aforefaid. and as for the rents and meane profits of the paid lands, tenements, and hereditaments, and all kinde of rents, and the goods or chartels taken or detained from any catholike, as aforefaid; due satisfaction is to be made for the came to the parties from whom the rents, goods, or chattels were or shall be detained, since thee troubles begun, as the provin cialt councell,or county councell thall respectively order. 13. item, it is further ordered and established for the re b movca'1