# the state of the island of jamaica. 41 erful prince charles, king of great britain, c. in order to the restoring and regulating the same for the future; to send into spain his envoy extraordinary, sir william godolphin, knight; with full authority and power to make any treaty convenient and proper for that end and likewishe the moft ferene and poworful charles, king of spain, c. and the queen regent maria anna, cc. for the carrying on a work of so much piety and pub-lick good, deputed on their part, the earl of penaranda, counsellor of state, and president of the indies, to confer, treat, and conclude thereupon, with the said sir william godolphin: at length they mutually resolved and agreed upon the articles of the following treaty in virtue of their several commissions. # i. first, it is agreed between the above mentioned plenipotentiaries sir william godolphin, and the earl of penaranda, in the names of the moft ferene kings respectively, their mafters, that the articles of peace and alliance, made between the crowns of great britain and spain, in madrid, on the $\frac{1}{2}$ of may, 1667. or any claudef thereof, thall in no manner be deemed, or underfood to be taken away, or abrogated by this prefent treaty; but that the fame thall remain perpetually in their ancient force, stability, and vigour, fo far forth as they are not contrary, lor repugnant to this prefent convention and articles, or to any thing therein contained. the treaty of 1667. con- firmed. ae a: 10 w baaonflls mnt baa ii. th a there be an univer- an univeral peace, as fall peace, true and fincere well in america as else- amity in america, as in the where. other