# [2] but that this has been for many years past can never be questioned or have supplied the french sugar-colonies with provisions, and neceffaries of all quantities of rum, which the french never made before (as interfering with and they take off likewisef great quantities of the french molloffes, which der the conflumption of brandy. and fuch french rum and moloffes is often bought by them with money received in our sugar-colonies, from their cargoes fold there. the mifchiefs from this commerce are very many and evident, and will encreafe more and more every year, if fome effectual stop be not put to it. by this means the french have encreafe their plantations, and made new mediterranean, with sugars, which were formerly fent thither by us. the brit/8 sugar-colonies can't find the market for their sugars abroad, which they did formerly, but chiefly depend upon our own conflumption. many of the inhabitants and planters are fo reduced, that they are recall moving to the northern colonies; which, in cafe of a war with france, in in martinico alone upwards of ning thoufand well-dificiplin'd men. the brizic sugar land are confrany deined of their current movies sugar, rum, and moloffes, from the french plantations. that by this intercourse, they have an opportunity of taking off great definite manner, from the french and dutch. and what is worthy of great consideration, is, that tho' the northern co-colonies receive much more advantage thereby than the northern colonies rum and moloffes being clear profit to the french ; and the cattle and have from any other place. nor do the northern colonies take from hence to great britain from this trade, any ways in proportion to counterbalance the ionies receive by it; the ruin of which muft immediately affct great britn besides the great benefit the french colonies receive from this trade, which of itself alone must soon defroy the british sugar-colonies, there are enable the french to supply foreign markets with sugar. the french sugar-colonies receive the greatest encouragement from their mother-country, and their duties are lefts than ours. whereas # [3] wheres the britijh sugar-colonies pay in the plantations a duty of four and a half per cent. for their sugars before they can flip them to great britain, which is never drawn back on exportation, no more than the excife on rum, which difables them from supplying ireland with it: and if their sugars are carried to the northern colonies they must pay the plantation duty of eighteen pence per cent. for their mufcavado sugars, and five shillings per cent. for their white sugar over and above the four and a half per cent. duty. upon the whole: if this trade to the foreign sugar colonies be not speedily and effectually prevented, the britijb sugar-colonies will be in danger of being ruined. the confequence of which to great britain will be, that the mutt lofe the export of all the britijb manufactures now taken off by the sugar-colonies, and the whole benefit arising from the importation of their product. our navigation and seamen muft neceffarily fall off and diminih. the african trade, as chiefly depending on the sugar-colonies, must decay. and our sugar works, and other plantation stocks and utenfils, will be of no ufe, and thereby fo much wealth will be actually funk and loft to this nation.