# (2) our own people in england, and pay three times the price for it; they make the return of all their industry and labour to us; this is the center of their wealth, the place where they lay it up, and where their 'offerity spend it; therefore to burthen them, is to ruin the moft profitable and moft induftrious part of our own body. but 'tis objected, that though this be true, it does not appear that laying a duty on their goods here can be a burthen or ruin to their trade, it being rais'd here not there, and paid by the impo-ter, and to him again by the retailer, and at laft by the con-finer, in the prices of the goods; all taxes in general being supp- this were a good argument, if fad experience had not made it appear to be a mittleake; and to convince thofe who are of another opinion, 'twill be neccffary a little to examine the hif'tory of the trade, and of the laft duty impofed upon it. our sugar trade, in general, is but a young manufacture, and dates its original within the memory of some perfons now living, and is, perhaps, the greatest improved trade, and the most profitable to england, that is, or ever was in the world. the first cause of its life was from the indifretion of the portuguese, who prefiguring upon their being mafters of the sugar-trade in the brazil's, laid a heavy tax on their own sugar, which encourag'd our land of barbados, to whom first the way of making of sugar was discovered, to run into the trade; and it has been in vain that the portuguese saw their error, and have since endeavour'd to retrieve it. this is for dire an example, 'this needle's to argue it. and whoever knows the sugar-trade, cannot be ignorant, that it is not impoible to be loft by the fame error by which it was gain'd. in the reign of the late king james an additional duty was laid upon sugar, notwithstanding all the remonfrances of the traders and planters to the contrary; and yet even then nothing but the pretence that the duty would not affect the planters but lye on the confumer, with a promise of his majesty to remit it if it prov'd otherwife, could make it seem tolerable. but when time demonstrated the fact it had on the planter and they applied for relief, they were answered, 'twas an unmanner thing to put his majesty in mind of his promise. tis true, if sugar was planted and cur'd in england, the duty might lye on the confumer, as in other cafes it does; but here the cafe differs exceedingly. the planter is the seller at our market, the merchant here is but the factor; when the planter ships his sugars for england he configns them to his factor to be sold for him, and generally draws bills upon his factor for as much as he fappofoes the produce to be, and sometimes more. upon laying the duty abovementioned, the experiment was made; the factor had two ways to manage the sugars and bills, and no more. # (3) to accept the bills absolutely. or, 2. conditionally. if he accepted the bills absolutely, he would then fell the goods at the market-price, let it be what it would, to enable him to comply with the payment; and if the produce did not make it good, the planter remain'd dostar to the ballance, fo the lofs return'd upon him. if he accepted the bills conditionally, that is, to pay when the goods are fold: if the goods did not fell in time, the bills went back protefted, or else were noted, and lay here at intereft and charges. by both which the planter was a confidable lofer both in money and reputation. the buyers here know too well thefe methods of their trade, and that of necessity the fadior mult fell for the reafons aforefaid, refused to advance in price notwithstanding the duty, and withheld buying by a general content, and the confequence foon anwer'd their expectation, for the factors were forced to fell at the old price to support the credit both of themselves and their principals. but fome of the moft considerable factors being willing to try all poffible ways for their employers, flipp'd off great quantities for holland, hambourgh, and other parts, but thoe markets being not able to take off the quantities, and the bills fill following the goods, to enable the exporter to pay the planters bills, as above, the very fame thing follow'd abroad, the goods were forced to be fold to raife the money, and the lofs fell fitill upon the poor planter. thus, whoever pays the money, the planter bears the lofs, and is left in debt, and confequently undone; for 'tis quite another thing to be in debt in the weft-indies than 'tis in england. that the planter is not able to bear the duty, at leaf, at this time, is the next thing to be proved, and that is as plain as the other. the war which has lafted now nine years, has been a general prejudice to all trade, but to the weft-india trade in particular: and in the weft indies, the ilands of barbados and jamaica have been as it were deltin'd to be ruin'd, having befides the war had a complication of difalters, as the dreadful earthquake, and the infuration of the negroes at jamaica, the lofs of three or four entire fleets from barbados, by difafter of weather and hurricanes, together with a diftemper brought among them by the men of war, little better than the plague, which fwepr away great numbers of their inhabitants. alfo they have raified forces, and fitted out ships at their own charge for feveral expeditions; and in thort, befides their loffes at sea by the french, with the ruin of great part of jamaica, and st. chriftobers, by their defcents, have raified larger taxes on their eftates than has been paid by us at home; by which means there is not half the sugar planted in the weft-indies that was fore the war. after