（52） to thole granted to the english east-india company at first, they would have found there was no reason to charge his majefly with granting us fuch immemie or unparalleled privileges, or aciirbing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noile of the guns at namar, as this petulant scribler does. dedication, pag. 9. but if $h$ —s and his subcorons exclaim against our privileges as immene, they are refol'd to diminish the authority by which they were granted, and call it only by the name of an odyro, which signifies no more than a patent ; whereas our privileges were granted us by an act of parliament, which are greater and more faced than all the odyros in europe : thus thro ignorance or maice they think fit to verify his majely's conduct and authority, which they pretend to defend. their malice is further demonstrated by the parentheils. (to be prefum'd) in the 3d page of the decetration, where they speak of his majesty's promite to interpe of his royal authority to do us right in cafe of diffeance, and that at the publick charge' (to be prefum'd) of his antient kingdom. there might polity have been some need of their peopilom, had all mankind been indeed'd with as little senile and honesty as h.-r and his suborners; for no body could ever preitifame it to mean any thing else, if he did not oblige england -that he they had prefum'd that a man of their eminities would take care thenceafaid principe should not be ken refual of leading our company the 3 men of war built at the charge of our own nation, would soon havc convinced the world that they had preum'd too true. we have accounted for rejecting mr. douglas' proposal elsewhere; nor that we take notice of $h$ -s's furficial reflections of mr. parpord, which （53） which only discover his own temper, but do that honne! man no hurt. as to his charging us with fuandering away 5000 1. on 6 huks at amsterdam and hamburg, purely to make a noie of our proceedings, &c. we would deir him and his suborners to reconcile it with what they fay from p. 14, to 20, where they own themselves that the dutch and hamburgers were both mightily pleas'd with the deign, p. 14. that the dutch were tickled with the concis that they should be slurpers in the scots trade; and p.16. that they, that which gave the dead fireto the scots deign, was the fae and well-india companies running open mouth'd to the lords of am-. hertamd, flowing that was hatching by the scots com-millions in their city to ruin the trade of the united provinces. p. 17. they tell us, that the hamburgers thought it the more their intereff to embrace the projeet, he more that the dutch appod'd in: p.18. that our affair was generally favour'd by the burgers of hamburg; and p. 21. that the government of england fucted the senate of hamburg a caution by sir paul ricaut to take care how they fiffer'd their burgers to embark with us. so that here we condemn them from their own months: it being plain from thoe concections, that we did not ioly funder away our money at hamburg and amherland; but that both thoe trading cities approve our deign, and would have agend'd in it, had not the court of england and the dutch appo'd it; and therefore what lois of many we fuitain'd in thoe places, must be charg'd to their account; fo that $h - s$ hath verified the proverb, that liars have need of good memories. this is not the only influence wherein those of $h$ and his subnonyms have given them the flip; for in the 4th page of the dedication, they upload