# [389] lix. aflronomical observations made at the island of barbados; at willoughby fort; and at the observatory on conftitution hill, both adjoining to bridge town. by nevil mafkelyne, a. m. fellow of trinity college, cambridge, and f. r. s. [read december 20, 1764.] n. b. all the observations of the first fatellite of jupiter were made with a two foot reflector made by mr. bird, having an aperture of 3 inches in diameter, except where they are marked as made with my 18 inch reflector made by mr. short, having an aperture of four inches and an half in diameter. and the eclipses of the other fatellites were all observed with the 18 inch telescope, except a few marked as made with mr. bird's two foot reflector. the latitude of willoughby fort is $13^{\circ}5^{\prime}\mathrm{n}$ . and that of the observatory $13^{\circ}5^{\prime}15^{\prime \prime}\mathrm{n}$ . this agrees with the latitude i observed when our ship came to anchor at our first arrival in carlisle bay, which, carefully calculated, and reduced to st. michael's church, gives $13^{\circ}5^{\prime}30^{\prime \prime}$ for its latitude. the observatory is about 200 yards due east of the church, and willoughby fort is about 1600 feet distant from the fame, bearing s. w. so that the observatory is about $15^{\prime \prime}$ of longitude, or $1^{\prime \prime}$ of time to the east of willoughby fort. the latitudes of willoughby fort and the observatory, fet down above, refult from altitudes of the fun taken with a bafon of quick-filver by the brafs hadley's fextant made by mr. bird, being calculated from them, and the apparent time known from equal altitudes of the fun taken with the equal altitude instrument.