# or, the earl of effex. their queen, and i am weary of the load, and want a friend like thee to lull my serro c. eff. behold thefe tearsfprung from fierce pain and joy, to fee your wond'rous grief, your wondrous pity. o that kind heav'n wou'd but infruct my thoughts, and teach my tongue fuch softning, healing words, that it might charm your soul, and cure your breaft for ever. queen. thou art my better angel then, and fent to give me everlafting quiet-- say, is't not pity that fo brave a man, and one that once was reckon'd as a god, that he should be the author of fuch treafons? that he, that was like cefar, and fo great, has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou'd floopt to gain a petty throne from me ? c. eff. i can't believe 'tis in his soul to think, much lefs to a t treafon againt you, your majesty, whom i have heard him fo commend, that angels words did never flow with fo much eloquence, fo rare, fo tweet, that nothing but the subject cou'd deferve. queen. half thou then heard him talk of me? c.eff.i have, and as of fo much excellence,as if he meant to make a rare encomium on the world, the stars, or what is brighter,heav'n. she is,faid he, the goddefs of her sex, so far beyond all woman-kind beside, that what in them is moft ador'd,and lov'd, their beauties,parts,and other ornaments, are but in her the foils to greater luftre, and all perfections else,how rare foever, are in her perfon but as leffer gleams, and infinite beams that ulher ftill the sun, but fcarce are vifible amidft her other brightnefs. and then he is fo good,it might be faid, that whilft fhelives,a goddef's reigns in england for all her laws are regefter'd in heaeny, and copy'd thence by her-but then he cry'd with a deep fight fetch'd from his loyal heart, well may the world bewail'that time at laft, when fo much goodneis flall on earth be mortal, and wretched england break its flubborn heart. queen. did he fay all this? c.eff. all this! may more, a thouland times as much, i never faw him