awry i wall with eires by night in vaine. tearse, fightes by night, by day encefaite this pain. mine eyes no eyes, but fountains of my tears. my tears no tears, but floodto to moyil my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my fears, my fears no fears, but feelings of my macte. my macte, my fears, my heart, my tears, mine cries are blinde, dide, spent, pall, walled with my cries. and yet mine elies, though blind, fee cefe of griefe. and yet my eares, though dide, runne dove aainee! and yet my heart, though fent, attends relife. and yet my fares, though falb, enecre me paine. and yet i lius, and liuing feele more finn; and martingcr, cryin vine, breve heaey heart. xxxii. canzonet, deficit government. where wit ison-rull by will, and will is led by fond deficie. tere cieare were as good be full, au pfeking, kinle great fire, for where dieh doth here the fiwys? the heart must rule, the head obey. what boot is the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to hope their course? book ii. of canzonets. when he that liers will have will, and drive them where he lift pe force. so reason flows the truth in vainse where fond delirie as king doth raigne. xxxxi. canzonet, lones properties. twi: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: ti: first blurring hee fests all on fire, whereby i seem in flames to fry? then cold despair kills hot defile, that clenched deepes, in death ilye. heat druses out cold, and keeps my life? cold quencheth hearce, i o end of life! the life i hope to haue my will, the more i feel dele fire ene cale, and as deile enereafeth vills, defaive to quenchit doth not crese. so liue i as the lampe; whale light. oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright.