# west indies. and fuddenly to abolish the existence of the commerce would not be productive of real difadvantages, in place of effecting the end defired by thofe who are eager for fuch强有力 and speedy measures? for folving this important question, we must take into view, not only the fituation of the flaves in africa, but of thofe already in the weft indies. in the first place, it is falle reafoning to fuppofe that britain, withdrawing her glare from the general demand, will effect a decreafe of the quantity brought to the market; for although in other kinds of commerce the supply is generally regulated by the demand, yet in this infance the rule will not hold. when two african flates are at war, the captives are dealt with in proportion to their strength and appearance. the old and infirm are maffacred on the spot; fuch as are able to travel a long journey are led to the fea-coaft, and of these all who are rejected are immediately put to death. from this it appears, that were britain to withdraw her demand, there would be left a fuperabundance of about 38,000 every year; who, unlefs bought up by other nations, muft inevitably be facrificed to the difappointed avarice of the black trader. infances, indeed, of this barbarous practice are fo numerous, that they have been frequently perpetrated in fight of our own flipping; fo that in this cafe the remedy becomes abundantly more horrible than the difeafe. secondly, let an unprejudiced mind reflect upon the situation of the remaining negroes, in the weft zij