# 368 wits common part.2 as the echiope cannot change his skin, nor the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not poffible to gather grapes of thorns, or figges of thistles: to it is no purpose to force any thing to fritse against nature. as in tilling of the ground and husbandrie, there is first choen a frintle foile, then a cunning lower, then good feed; even to we must compare nature to the fat earth; the expert husbandman to the schoolmaster, the faculties and sciences to the pure feuds. as the feriallo foile if e ne beuier loll doth was barren: fo that which is most noble by nature, is made molt vite by negligence. as the torch turned downwards is extinguished with the fellefame wake, which was the cause of his light; to nature turned to vinkindelle is quenched by thole means it should be kindled, leaving no branch of loue, where is found no root of humanite. new. # part.2. wealth. 169 # nees. a.s cooks with for a plentiful a breed of escell, and fifters of fishes: to bune brined inount eaters do hunt after newer, and innoumion in flues. plut. as we let vp mistake from cats and dogs; to we must take heed, what we speak before newes mongers, and innuminating intelligencers. idem. as our bodies are more endangered by the spring, & in autume, by reason of change: to all noutle doth offended and hurt the common wealth. as change of meate, drinke and aire doth affend, albeit it be in loo like, or into better: fo it is bener till to reanour old princees and magillrastes, then to gapef for new, because all innoutria is full of danger and diffur- ance. as apion called homer from the dead, forever other caste, but to know from what passage he was defended: to many take great pains, and below much colt, only to hear neares, and know nouthics, pliny.30.342. r. rc...