our duty to contribute our share; and to act from confci- [5 ence, as we should in familiar cafes from feeling and inclination. for instance: let us fuppofe the algerines to eftablifh fugar plantations, and refort to the banks cf the thames for flaves. suppoe our wives, our hufbands, our children, our parents, our brethren, fwept away, and the fruit of their labour, produced with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs, landed at the port of london. what would be our conduc? should we fay, "sugar is a neeaffary of life: i cannot do without it. befides the quantity i ufe is but small: and though it be very criminal in the algerines to enflave others, i am not bound to look to the nature or confequence of the tranfction. paying for the sugar, i have a right to confume it, how ever it may have been obtained." if fuch would be our language in that cafe, be it fo on the preflent occasion. for let us recolle that in both cafes the enflaved are our brethren. and let us only fuppoe an englishman were to receive injuries, that bore but the flighteft resemblance to thofe daily com-. mitted in our islands, the nation would be inflamed with refent-. ment, and clamorous to avenge the injury. and can our pride fuggleft, that the rights of men are limited to any nation, or to any colour? wereanyone to treat a fellow creature in this country as we do the unhappy africans in the weft-indies; truck with horror, we should be zealous to deliver the oppreffed, and punifth the oppreflor. are then the offices of humanity and functions of juftice to be circumfcribed by geographical boundaries? can reafon, can confidence julfify this contraf in our conducet, between our promptitude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the other?mr.addifon juftly obferves,that "humanity to become eftimable muft be combined with juftice."but we feem to act as if we thought, that the relief of our fellow creatures, and protection from injuries, were works of fupererogation; to be granted or with-held, as caprice, or inclination may fuggleft. after the important considerations adduced, it might be reckoned a degradation of the subject to mention the national dignity; or even that might induce us to counteract a powerful body of men, who are trampling under foot, the dictates of humanity, and the interest of the nation: men, who have received for fugar alone, above a million per ann, more than it would have colt at other markets. from mr. botham's evidence it appears, that in batavia, where labour is as high as in england, fugar equal to the belt weft-india, is fold at 1 d½ per pound. there are the men who are calling on us to aid the operation of their whips by the terrors of our bayonets; and to misapply the public treasure to support individuals in violating every principle of law and justice, and to defend them in the moist dreadful tyranny over half a million of perfons, born in iflands, which, when it ferves their purpose they pretend to be ours; but of which they have virtually unfurped the sovereigncy: and have the audacity to tell the britifth legilature, "that they cannot abolish the slave trade; for that if england refuses to furnish them with flaves