that as to the virginia trade, which brings greatst advantage to his majesty, the merchants of ireland are in a manner wholly cut off from that trade, except they will drive it to the utter ruin of the kingdom. (which they refolve not to do.) for neither provision, nor horfes will go off at virginia, nor are servants to be had to fuch numbers as to enable that trade; and the export of their manufacture is prohibited. so that if they will drive that trade, they must do it with cath, and turn all the little money they have into smoak, or be at the exceffive charge, double hazard and expence of time, to come unto, and return through england with that (as all other plantation commodities) which hath occasioned frequent lofs of seafons, and of ships and cargo's to the lofs of the duty to his majesty, and ruin of many merchants, as they made appear in very many deplorable infances, too long to be here inferted. they say, that whereas by an act of the 25. car. 2. for better fecuring the plantation trade, it is enacted, that if any ship or veffel, which by law may trade in any of the plantations, thall come to take on board any plantation commodities, and that bond thall not be firft given, with sufficient surety to bring them to england, wales, or barwick. that there thall be paid there on white sugars 5 s. per cent. on mufcovados 8 d. per cent. on tobacco 1 d. per pound, 6 c. which afforded fome eafe to the diftreffled merchants of ireland in returning, without being neeffilated to come to england to enter. yet that door alfo hath been but against ireland by the artifice of the arbitrary commissioer of the cuffoms in england. for contrary to the plain import of that law, there was a ship of england which paid that duty in the plantations, feized and condemned, under pretence that that aet was only intended for the trade between plantation and plantation, although there is nothing in the aet that gives countenance to that construction. that tho the manufactures of ireland are few, and that the moft con fiderable of them is linnen, which interferes not with the manufacture of england, and that the quantity exported in times of free trade to the plantations was but fnall, yet the suffienance of a good number of the moft necceffitous of their people depended wholly on that little, and that they cannot fubfift barely by air, more than the people of eng land. that by reason of the eafnefs to fubfit in ireland, the refraints on trade, the difficulty, if not impofibility (now) to grow rich by trade, and the cheapnefs of land; merchants are inclined to purchase rather than trade. that from hence, and the mean way of living o the natives, paucity of inhabitants, little demand of the native commodities in foreign markets, the want of any peculiar commodity