# 192 a choice manual,or, the dofe is one or two fippoonfuls morning and evening. the virtue of aqua marix. it is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obstructions thereof, it comforteth the vital parts, and is good against all paffions of the heart; it prefeiveth the meat in the stomach from putrefaction; it helpeth digestion, and expelleth wind. the dole is one spoonful at one time. the virtues of flowers of rofemary. it is good against all infirmities of the stomach, and to supperfes all offensive fumes rising up from thence to the head, keeping them down, and helpeth memory; it openeth all floppings of the liver and milt, it preventeth vertigo, scotoma, palfles, apoplexes, dileaes of that kind arising from cold humours, it breaketh wind, and eateth the cholick. the dofe is 1 spoonful at 1 time. the # rare secrets in phyfick. 193 the virtues of spirit of mint. it is good for the stomach, and strengthens the retentive faculty, good against vomiting, and all paffs of the heart, it comforth the vital spirits; and is good against the contumotion, it expelelt wind, and helpterh digestion, and is an infalilble help for all melancholy. the dofe is from one to two foontuls. the virtues of aqua theriacalis. it is good against all dileases of the spleen whatsoever; it preventeth and helpth contagions, and flidden oppriefences and qualms of the beast. the dofe is one foonful to prevent, and 3 to the infected, who ought to fire at after taking it. the virtues of spirits of saffron. it is good to comfort the vital spirit, laities, trembling, and peniveness of the heart; and help us all malignity of perfection, it