# : [36] is clear that laying on of hands was visibly done, outwardly apparent, simon saw it, surely then praet was vocal and apparent, they both did play; and not as forme would have it, one did pray vocallie, and the other mentallie. but forme may quazrie further, did they lay on hands both at a time, viz. peter and john? truly the text is not clear in that particular, on lie the text: faith thus much, they laid on their hands on the samaritans, they, in the plural number. i thall fay no more as to thee ciurcumstances, i hope thoe which are judicious will not fand upon fuch niceties as these are, but rather will mind subfiantials, and fo i thall defire the readet to make his progreffe unto the next particular, and leave this unto confideration. # chap. iii, is concerning the ends wherefore laying on ofands it is to be administered upon bapti-zed believers. i am not ignorant that the whole weight of the controversial lies in the clearing up of this point, and why? because there hath been a great deal of difference amongst the people # [37] of god, and that as to the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers; and alfo the ends wherefore they were laid upon baptized believers in former times; the contention about this point hath been for much the stronger,because of some contrarie ends which have been propofed by fome in opposition unto those right ends which ihall here lay down. and because we may observe a right order and method for the profit of all, ihall therefore fist lay down thoe ends which i judge to be of most strength and life for the maintenance of what is formerly laid down; and then ihall come in the next place to overthrow thoe fupposed ends which are brought in by others. in the first place i shall affirm, that one end wherefore perfons are to have hands laid on them, is, that fo they may be put into a further capacitie of going on to perfection. i would not here be miftaken, i do not lay others who have not subjected unto this principle are no waias in a capacitie of going on to perfection; but this is that i do affirm namely, that those baptized believers who have subjected unto this truth, are put into a further way of capacitie of going on to perfection, and therefore this is one end wherefore it is to be d 3 fub