a single person, something like a king, nolls craft, and crew, and power, to pafs did bring, protection; or projector rather's levelling all to his lufts, a while fits proudly revelling the feather in his cap, the title king hee calls, and yet the power fill ulurping; five years hee rul'd, not reign'd, himelf protecting by power and sword, all luft men elfe rejecting, in his own craft god fill was him defeating, hee would and would not, fo hee liv'd by cheating. calls three mock:parlaments, breaks up the thing of his own m.king, caufe hee would bee king; a pack of knaves were fome, fome could not give up ou grand laws,whiles charls his son did live. noll fit to rule,but no juft title having, makes him unjuft,and made him alwaies craving of all religions that made for his supporting, made:all opinions fitrup his ufurping; a coach-box favour god him once was giving, on michaelmas day,to change his wicked living. state secretary in the coach doth fit, protector in the coach box, where's his wit? sometimes fuch frolicks mad into his brain were whymied by his spirit, or his train; but this one aet was like their actions all, one draws another, now noll gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that noll had none, noll had gone virtues, mercy hee lackt alone; one of his three mock-parlaments was fitting. when as their head at the horfe heels was flitting, some some part o'th' army nol abroad doth fend, for gold, to hippaniola, keeps to mend the reft, worms lambert out, and others trembling obey,yet mofl do hate his bafe diffembling. his major generals, semi-dragons fting the land, nols bafhaws then deferv'd the ftring. for moneys fake the fews he in would bring, caufe they fore him had murder'd chrift their kir he then pleads for the fews the scripture text for their conversion, though with his own he's he doth divines call up from feverall places, to colour that deign, his chaplains faces are not fo braz'd as his, he turns the few, he gets the gold, and then forakes that crew. still mony lacks, for that his confidence bends his power and fword, and valor thereto tends, it must be had, if that the gods deny, the acheron hee'l force, and devils try, makes churches flabies, a sacrilegious thing, this was the reformation nol did bring. brave man, where doth thy spirit fadly rumble? how in this world did thy apirings tumble things upfide down? valour with counfel fwayd is good, grand no! makes all the world afraid. how many icem to blefs when as they curfe? no! cares not, fo that hee have power and purfe. how did his parlaments and himself agree? how did his fevel speeches made to three concur: and with his recognition more, prayes, and proteefs, and fwears, makes up the core. e he