# primo avulfo non deficient alter aureus, fimili frondefacit virga metallo. the whole complex of ingredients is known to conflict only of vulgar aqua fortis (abstracted from two parts of vitriol, and one of salt-peter) and quick-filver, and a small quantity of silver, far lefs than you may reap in a small time from thofe silver-prigs; yet gain there is none, there being more expences blown away into fmoak by continuance of fire in one month, than can be recover'd from this silver-harveft in a longer time. and though this feem but a toy, yet 'tis very philosophical, much informing the understanding, however it enrich not the purfe. for here we fee crude merchury manifestly turn'd into silver, notwithstanding 'tis deny'd by fo many. so far this generous observer for this time; with the laft part of whole relations may be compared numb. 39. p. 779, 780. 'tis hop'd, that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the subject, he hath here begun to difcourse of, and others of a philosophical nature, will be further comunicated by him. # an account of some particulars, referring to those of jamaica, numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the younger, an eye-witness. 1. a llegators are fhip'd like lizards, being four footed they walk with their belly at distance from the ground, like lizards. thofe of a full growth, have teeth like a maffiff, and a mouth of 1's foot wide. they are of fo frong a fcent, that you may smell them at a pretty diffance, when they lie on the land. they may be mather'd and kill'd by any, dextrous and skill'd in the way of doing it, which is, that a man be arm'd with a good long tronchion, and fall upon them fide-ways; for doing it frontways, they are too nimble for the affaiant, and may, by leaping upon him, (which they can do the length of their whole body) spoil him: but if he lay his club on them againft their fshoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and iume them there, the beaft being thereby rendred un able to move, is eafily fubdued. 2. tortofoes, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they flill live, their blood muft not be hotter, than the element, they live in. 3. the chigo's, defrbed by ligon, are not felt to have got in o the body,ill a week after. they will breed in great numbers, and that them felves