# the indian german. they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. wz. ter they imagine to haue beene the beginning of making the world; and that beside the foure elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heauen and starres confit. they intreate of the immortalityie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many fuch like matters. the germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored among them: especially fuch of them as liue in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of thef wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more then with ceres. they speak not to the kings, when they ask counsei of them, but by meffengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is fupfo fed, by their holinffle. # 1 praife of prefcribed pa-tience. # m the like flubbornnccfe is yet in their joghics. # n aian. var. b.b.5.cap.6. # 6arr. called him dandans. next in honor to thefe, are certaine mendicamis, which liue of rice and barksy, which any man at the first asking giuech them, together with entertainment into their houfes. these profelle skill in phylicke, and to remedie difeafes, wounds, and tenily; very constant in labour and hardhip. others there are, inchanters and diuinen, ma fhters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more ciuill and fecular, in their life professing like pietie and holinffe. wmen allo are admitted vnto the fellowship of their fludies in this philosophie, not to their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he faw two of thee brachmanes, the one anold man fhaen, the other yong with long hairie, which somtimes rforted to the marksplace, and were honored as counellors, and freely tooke what they pleafed, of any thing there to be fold, for their fulfence. they were annooted with sefame oyle, wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admtted to axanders table, where they gaue leffons of patience 1: and after going to a place nefor off, the old man lying downe with his face vpward, fuftained the sunne and flowen terrible violence. the yonger ftanding on one foot, held in both his hands a piece of wood of three cubits lifted vp, and shifted feete, as the other was wearie: and fothey continued euy day. the yong man returned home after ward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he wus by fome reproued, he answered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercife, which he had vowed. one fcritua faith, that alexander, hearing of fome religious obferunu, which wentnaked, and exercifed themfelues to much hardfip, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to comew them; fent him vnto them, who found ficeene of them twentie furlonga from the cite, each of them obferuing his owne gefuture of fitting, flanding, cr lying naked, and not flirring till sun-fetting, in that unfupportable heate, at which time they returned into the cite. calanus was one of them. he after ward followed alexander into pefia, where beginning to be ficeke, he caufed a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himfelle in a golden chaire, and caufed fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily confumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander at babylon, the place fatall to alexanders death. aelianus n faith, that this was done in a faburb of babylori, and that the fire was of cedar, cyprfle, mirtle, laurell, and other sweet woods : and after he had performed his daily exercife of running, he placed himfelle in the middeft, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne fluning on him, which he wortfipped. this adoration was the figne which he gaue to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any flirring till he was dead. alexander himfelle admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told one fcritua of a golden world, where meale was as leni full as duft, and fountains freamed milke, hony, wine and oyle.which counreey, by men turned into wantonneffe,fupster altered and detained impofing a life of hardnck and labour, which while men followed, they enjoyed abundance; but now that men begin to furfet and grow difobedient, there is danger of viuierfall deftruction.when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, flrip himfelle, and lye na ked vpon these flones. but mandanis," another of them, reproued calanus for his harflines,and commending alexander for his loote to learning,faid that they mure their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds againt paffions. for his na