cap.13. some were banged, some beamed, some were burned, some drowned, some deomorphic of wide beams, some pull'd in pieces by men more fugacive than beams, yet they did all i swear it, and rejoiced they fiffered for conscience, and for god. antalus and alexander were twice bayred with wide beams to be torn in pieces by them, (as eusebius reports) antalus ecliping the beams, was referred to other toments, to be burnt to death in an iron bath, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all macdonalds, theodibius, and tatianus laid under a gredyons, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus artobius was fripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot forching sun, to be eaten up with fire, and hung to death with night, yet did he fuller all rather than give one half-peny to re-elite that idol temple in his diocles, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with fire, and hung with night he did account far more degradable, that he might prefer his conscience in paritee and parcs, then to be eaten up of boration, and hung with fire, if to prefeire his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many chrilians together foort up in lakes, or cavers artificially made clofe, which lakes, or ditches were filled with a company of darmie, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor chrilians, they all the whible bound hand and and foot, that they could not keep off the cap. 12, hunger-farmed creatures, which were kept mag.cem. a. 13; without meat also purported, that they cap. 3; might falten upon the bodies of thoe godly ex theod. men; which ingring and miferable death they under-went, yes was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the hiflroian. they choed much rather to lie in fuch a lake artifically fopt, and to be eaten up alive with those vermun, their concience being prefered, then to yield up this fort of concience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and honour of concidence. and when dead, to be bound band and foot, and call into an internal lake of fire and brimfone,externally flop up, there to be converant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with thoe helihf fuiety. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, laiantius faith not only the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (faith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard to cure for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could either enjoydf such as a groan from them ; which lacertiof the floundt theves and malefactors among their perfeccutors could not undergo, but exclaimant, they would roare and crie out through im- cy geminus patience, and difabilito to endure them. nighte anu ut de visus racemui pueri, y multiiercul tortes fust tixtic vam, y exprime illit geminus nec ignis pereff la i.s. cap.13. but