vi. pulvis antifebriticus nofter: or, our general febrifuge. 1. a n admirable pouder against fevers of all fortis : a few dofes thereof (with the ute of the other medicines) takes off the fever beyond expectation. 2. it is something sudorifick, but for the moft part works downwards firft, and afterwards provokes sweat ; it is a prevalent remedy againft putrid fevers, meafles, small-px, calenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous difeaes. 3. it is good againtf the green-ficknefs, dropfiie, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profitable in hectick fevers. 4. it refifts putrifaction, fortifies the stomach, correts crudities, purifies the blood, cleanfe s the bowels of filth and vificous humours, by a gentle purging way. the dofe and manner of ufing it. 1. let the patient drink plentifully of our $aq$ . vita mag. according to the directions in its place: give a dofe of powder in the morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you fee occasion, more or lefs; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glafs of canary, or a spoonful of syr. of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii. ·aqua （rr） vii. aqua ruba mineralis. s an excellent medicine of a preservative nature, of great benefit in the plague, and other contagious diflempers; particularly againft the burning thirt in fevers : good against coughs, shortnefs of breath, ptfick, the difeafes of throat and month ; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thrufh in children, quinfies, and fuch like inflammations; as alfo for an unfavory breath. it's ufe and dofe. for thrufes or fore mouths in fucking children, or any foulnes of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, sweeted with a little honey of rofes, and fo drink it, and wafh their mouthe's with the fame; for people of riper ycars,they muff gargle their mouths with it; it being compoled to a gargarifm with white-wine, or plantain-water, and dulcfied with syrup of mulberries, or honey of rofes; often taking from 6 drops to 40,or 50,in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirft in fevers, give from 6 drops to 40 or 50,or half a spoonful in fo much beer, or ale, that it may taft tharpihf of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5 or 6 hours space; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party defires to drink, obfer-ving in fuch cafes to take ofoen to procure sweat, of my elix. magnum cordialis, and at night to take b3 a