euribium muft do what cochips will not: opium muft do what lettice poffet will not; but first it muft be mixed up into a ridiculous landrum, colocynidae scammany muft effect what manna, senr or roubart will not: o brave doctors! o opita hellbore digna! yet you are the men that cry out against payons. as though scammy, colocotisda, blaterium, efula, euphorbum, talipium, bryony, aclarum, acoron, hellebore, and fueh like, as camogia, &e were not abfolue poyfons. o but they are tempered by the art of the skilful doctor. good words coff no money, i with it prove fo. but i pray mr. doctor if it be for, what means the bleating of the sheep e i mean, what is the reafon your medicaments retain their vomiting quality with convulsions of the flomack which have hellebore mixed) and their purging quality with grippings and and such symptoms that have scammonymixed ; thus you life to correct poisons, thus you intend to cure dificates . an intervention can be helpful but as a juger when his feats are diffierenced, loyou by this means be comic ridiculous: you know the ferious check the frog in aefep received, who as you do, would pretend to be a doctor. cur rito ii labra iivida non toras? coughs, colds, murkes, horlofefferes, head-aches, tooth-aches, and the like, may oft-times the simple itch and scab doth reproach you at home, and outdare you abroad, and what is your excuse? they are trivial cafes. by which it appears, that if other deities should become as common as thebes,they would all be too mean for the doctors reverence ,and good reafor, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountbanks with