fture, and haffmeth on old age and death. sperme or feede of generation is the onely comiorter of nature, which wilfully fled or loft, harmeth a man more,then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how wuuleffe bactebers, and how bundleffe mades, should drive away their unclean dreaminof vcnery at nights. first, they mutt refraine from wine, and venerous imaginations, and not vfe to lye in foit down beds. secondly, they multaddict them feluesto read the bible and morall philofophy.thirdly,they mutt exercife often their bodies.laftly,if none of thefe preuaile, let them vfe the feed of agnus caftus,in engilf parkefeed,and they thall feele a frange effc to follow. # ofbathes. chap.5. what is the wife of bathes? cold and naturall barthes are greatly expedient for men fubie to rheumes, dropfies and gouts. neither can i eafily expeffe in words how much good cold bathes doe bring vnto them that vfe them : howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man diftempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fafting, or through violent exer cife, preflume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholome? you shall find it wonderful expedient, if you bath your head four times in the year, and that with hot ice made of alhes. after which, you must caufe one prefently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountain water vpon your head. then let your head be dryed with cold towels. which fadaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mightly terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is flred within the body, baldneffie is kept backe, and the memory is quickned. in like manner, wafing of hands often, doth much auaile the eyefight. how ball a man bathe himfelle in winter time when waters be froxien? in winter time this kinde of artificial bath- thing is very expedient and wholfome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the iuyce of wormwood and wild mallowes, one f4 ounce