# 34 goals word the fifeef guide. john.7. cannot bate them, but him is basc: the sea fon followeth, nor for injury but for in-nocency, not for falhood but for truth: he cflied that the works thereof were eull. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded fincerity is of fo final account, but because the world of the vregenerate lieth in wickednes, and faith to car-nall affecions bringeth little content-ment? how can it be that oppreflours, extortioners, virurs, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thouands of delicious prodigals, thoud entreatne the golpell: since zucchien muft divid his goods, mathew muft bid farewell to his place of cullomary receipt; yea the people of god muft vfe this world as if they vfed it notfhow hard therefore will it be for such as truff in vuncertaine riches, to fubieq themelfes to this life of faith? may not gods minifers take vp a lamentarion, wha happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to eurlasting bliffe plainly beaten foorth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how fluggih are our common professfours,that cannot watch one hour? # god's word the safe gift guide. 35 hour?and how faithlefe are hoic back- fliding hypoccties,as if the vichangeable poffefour of heauen and earth were va-faithfull, or vnaible to recompence and fully reward his faithful people? thus we see, that freight is the way, and small is the number that go it. eu proam is an vnuly heifer that will not be named. euer haue gods sines beng like the fhaking of an olue after the vintage. wicked men are mad men, they will not be ordered; they are deaf men, they will not hear, charme the charmer neuer fo wifely. if that be fine which is not done of faith, how wofull will it be with the greatf number, who neither know nor beleeuc, being blinde and diffolute: having from their nonage to their old age wandred from the wales of god, being feuen fold more the children of hell then they were in their mothers wombes ? if all aions that want faith be fins, how many are the fins of those who were neuer enlightened with the knowledge of god? my texe hath driven me into fuch a narrow freight, & to paled me in, that i cannot get liberty; either to licence the noullects of the a thenians,