leofene $, coughing, gripes & pining away. pain . and sicknefsat stoniach, urclining to vonit. a great appetite, and craveing for vidtuals frequently crying i reftlels ‘and unealy, no budy gan tell with or ‘ what they atl qr would have, qc what to give ; ahem for bales: sr nt ii f \, irections for the sug = ww ‘only of thefe plums. and if but zaten 3 time. will save a deal of charges in phyfick, & recover “m tx to: an ,, bearing, “sitknefs\and bain a ‘sickusls, ‘want ‘of: appetite, breath, giving immediate ea -the.only:harm of a plum mor + ea heneyer than a child is out of order, let it immediately, and gut of hand, eat one. country shop keeprs through out the whole “=! kingdom, ‘fell adeal of thele gum openning.- remedies and plums which proves fo yery quick a return: that they, still fend to templebar for. more children from mine f@ than “loads: of othe’ ford & more of them. and what is not sold, are” retuitied at any time. .< aig g “a'nd any order fhall ‘be famediately delivered” | a y carrier, stage coach, wateman, or: -cortefpondents, you shall pleafe to order, to any partof the kingdom théfe sugar plums preicntly | cure an agues, and intermitting ever; the head ck}:-gripes rhumatifn. thicknels of \ne only off thefe- little plums (of a penny) is ‘ow” enough 2 bring thefe worms with'foul & grofs . humours awaly' from a child of 2 or 3 years old --- and half 2 ph “ies ‘jum for younger children; w_o plums given tga child of 4. 5. 06. years ". old, to bring worms'away, thre plums, to one of 8. 9, or 10, years old;for a fine fafe purge. and manor woman, tay take 4. 5. or 6.0f them when they want ta be finel our of theiribod yout fee a load of foul humours,. as green as ¥ purgedyand to have foul humours ody. and after every workings by which grafs, drink’a deal of warm broth, water gruel, ale, or tea, the more you drink the bester they will work if not given stools enough add a plum ‘next time —: efor a dofe would only. bea stool ottwothe more, di misseng a day or two between each, thefe plums should be taken 3 times’ becaufe once only -takeing. does not purge out-of the body all the: wor ms, -and foul huciours, and.may be taken any vicathes beat or reofl, ners t stomachdropfy-grecn - .2> -. : fe and eafy breath... rnc