a aletter from jamaica, jp a friend ta london, concerning kid-n appine. sir, ours found me a little indifpos'd ; but yet 1 made the bett enquiry my health and opportunity would give me leave to anfwer your deiires. the relation you have fent me of the great abnies in the spiriting away of children, makes a very fad story ; and muft needs be a lamentable grief to their parents that have loft them. you fhould have done well to have feng me the names of thofe that are miffing ; or if you think fit to have me look any further into this bufinefs,. pray let me receive your further directions at your belt — leifure. we are not without apprehenfions here in this place for the divifions int england ; 1 with we may yet live to meet again in comfort and peace. the paper which i fend you here enclofed, is all 1 was able to do in fo {hort atime; but upon the truth of it you may depend. ido not know but you may find in this lift fome unhappy people that you look for ; and it would bew ell if youmade ~~ 4 publication of it in one of the comon news papers: mr. faneway, or mr. curtis, i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be fo notified, as that any of thofé ood people that have loft their children, may underftand whither to repair for fas tisfaction. 3 if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your felf to mr.john wilmore in fewen-sfireet, who is a planter himfélf, and knows all the tricks of thofe rafcals. befides that, he isa man of bufinefs in the city, a large acquaintance, a true proteftant, and ( if lam not miftaken) a common-council- man. he is very induftrious arid charitable befide; andif there fhould be occafion, heis as likely to ‘affift you asany man i know: thé it were to £0 as far as the hlope upon the errand, to fave a poor child from want, and slavery. i need fay no more to you, than that if you have his friendfhip, he can tell you all the ways of the zra- we how they take up children, inviegle them away, and the conveieances they ave for the concealing of them. thefe kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compaffion ; that they could not get quit of him, or perfuade him to come back it may be, thé he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you mutt get a difereet juftice to examine the mater; fo the reft i leave to your difcretion. little wz takes to his bufinefs very well ; and ihope his friends will have com- fort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance jn your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults 3 for i muft immediately take my leave of you, and subfcribe my felf your affectionate kinfman and servant , f tm if any perfon named in the following lift, thall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be left with mr. wa/ter davis, in amen-corner, whoiwill give direétions how to make a further enquiry. ; the number of whites. the number of whites that 1. fofeph ruffel dyedin my time. 2. william burne. thomas hiughs, i} 3. george shallitoe. peter peterjon. 4- urban rony. john gwartwrite. 5 5. andrew reddal. thomas davies. 6. william polliard. samuel hodgley. 3 a em 4 pea sold in my time. . richard sevitor. , ; asis thomas martin. zr 8. richard sebito2. thomas barber. a fee 9. fames durham. free. 10. george french, ha ; 11. thomas woodcock. % william ward. eel ie unlaise richard barret. total of the whites —x11.. loft at law fe ee with fountain. famaica, decemb, 30.1684, ss ome ecce a az f v