354 ch il fontg of f fleth spouced. sath pik em with your knife , and {eafon them) ither in flices, or whole with the horns swith salt, nutmeg. mace & pepper. pp either in fic > gnd having firft wafh’d your pork on thef « infide with yolks of eggs, wath the out sides of lamb fonced. fide of your veal therewith, and lay ith bone your fide of lamb , foak it and within your pork 5, laftly,ftrow on your reef {queeze it well from the blood, wipeit dry, maining feafoning, and row] it up hard,} and {eafon the infide with beaten nut- binding ic with tape: when it is bail’d,} meg, ginger, fome fweet herbs minced fouce it in fome of the fame liquor, with 4] fimali, whole coriander-feed, minced le~ little winegar, beaten pepper and gingerjt monepill and salty laftly, fome flices of when you ferve it up, tick your pork with} broad lard over all: then rowl it up in bay-leaves or rofemary and flowers, gare} a coller, and tye it up ina clean. cloth, nithing your dith with flowers’ ang it into your liquor when it boils, and sage. um it very well, and aries in ficed " <. | ginger, fliced nutmeg, salt, fennel anc . rams bead fenced. 24 parfley roots, being almoft boiled, put ia cut the head off, -with,a good part of aquart of white wine, when itis eno the neck adjoyning to it, and boil it with ': take it off, and put in flices of lemon; skin on g04 while ;_ when it is with the pill o two whole lemons; throughly boiled, ( which will: require | boil it clofe covered, to make the veal confiderable time) take it up and phick.of — look white. theskin, then take broth you have boil- thus: you may order a breaft of veal, ed fome freth meat in, and boil it over a.“ or any joynt of mutton, kid, fawn or gain with vinegar, salt, 3 good handfuj of —venifon. fwest'herbs, ginger, pepper, a good piece - », 9f horfe-raddith root {craped, and a quarr soran ealer’d, : ter of a pound of frenchrbarkey 5, bein, bone your swan, and part the two fides, boiled, (rain them through a bagy. and. | fealonie according. to the foregoing, dire- fouce the head in ies you may feeve it | gions in the foucing of gecle, feafon it hf up with a early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc lages reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library