: 01 tight juest llc early english books online, copyright ish library images reproduced by courtesy of britis bur that thishas: been:fo-for many years paft can never be.queftioned or denied. for the: people of: néwo-england, and other. parts. of: the: continent, have fupplied'the french sugar-colonies with provifions, and necetfiries.of all kinds for ¢] ici: plantations; and: have taken from them sugars, and great quantities. of: rum,. which: the: french never made before (as interfering ‘with french brandy) till they found a vent for it by this trade, ; aw they take off likewife great quantities of the french moloffes, which was ufelefs to them before, for the fame reafon, that the diftilling it would hin- der the confumption of brandy, ano fuch frexch rum and molo n bought by them with money received in our sugar-colonies, from their cargoes fold there. tue mifchiefs from this commerce are very many and evident, and” will encreafe more and more every year, if fome effectual stop be not put to it. by this means the french have encreafed their plantations, and made new settlements, and chiefly fupply hamburgh, holland, spain, the levant, and the mediterranean, with sugars, which were formerly fent thither by us. tue briti~p sugar-colonies can’t find the market for their sugars abroad, which they did formerly, bur chiefly depend upon our own confumption, many of the inhabitants and planters aré fo reduced, thar they are re- moving to the northern colonies ; which, in cafe of a war with france, in all probability, will occafion the entire lof of the sugar mands ; there being in martinico alone upwards of ning thoufand well-difciplin’d men, dat deitifi cagaetande ave canftantly arsined af their ourrent monies by the traders from the northern colonies, who carry it away to purchafe sugar, rum, and moloffes, ‘from the french plantations, tuar by this intercourfe, they have an opportunity of taking off great uantities of foreign european manufactures, and india goods, in a clan- deftine manner, from the french and dutch, awp what is worthy of great confideration, is, that tho? the nor nies may be gainers upon the whole by this trade ; yet the frey, colonies receive much mone advantage thereby than the northern colonies do, rum and moloffes being clear profit to the french ; and the cattle and lumber they receive, abfolutely neceffary for them, and which they could not have from any other place. nor do the northern colonies take from hence more of the britifh manufactures than they formerly did ; nor bring a profit to great britain from this trade, any ways in proportion to counterbalance the incredible damage great britain muft fuffer from the mifchief the sugar-co- lonies receive by it; the ruin of which mutt immediately affe& grea) britain in tle higheft degree. thern co. ch sugar- besipes the great benefit the french colonies receive from this trade, which of itfelf alone mutt foon deftroy the britiph sugar-colonies, there are other caufes which will contribute to make our sugar-colonies decline, and enable the french to fupply foreign markets with sugar, tue french sugar-colonies receive the greateft encouragement from their mother-country, and their duties are be than ours, wuereas 4 s the britifh sugar-colonies pay in the plantations a pay of four aa ball - cent. for their sugars before they can fhip them to reat abil anda bail pe diawn back on exportation, no more than the exci 7 on rum, wh i fables them from fupplying ireland with it: and if heir sug s are aoa i the newhen colonies they gut pay the five shallings’> of as cen i fufcavado sugars, thee white sagar over and ae the f sar and a half per cent, duty. i colonies be not 3 if this trade to the foreign sugar , ; t sed pemenily prevented, the britifh sugar-colonies niles oe in pans eee bcng ruined, the confequence pf mnien great bria ne i ey hat th ; f all the britis manufacture: 1 1 su re coloniee and eke whale benefit arifing from the importation of ‘their product. ovr navigation and seamen muft neceffarily fall off and diminith, tus african trade, as chiefly depending on’ the sugar-colonies, muft decay, i utenfils, will be works, and other plantation stocks and > x of no ue and ‘thereby "fi nach wealth will be actually funk and loft to this nation.