£ 389 ] lix. afronomical obfervatians made at the ifland of barbados ; at willoughby fort 5. and at the obfervatory on conftitution hill, doth adjoining to bridge town. by nevil mafkelyne, 4. m. fellow of tri- nity college, cambridge, and f. r. s. [read december 20, 1764.] n. b. all the obfervations of the firft fatellite of jupiter were made witn a two foot refletor made by mr. bird, having an aperture of 3 7% inches in diameter, except where they are marked as made with my 18 inch reflector made by mr. short, having an aperture of four inches and an half in diameter. and the eclipfes of the other fatellites were all obferved with the 18 inch telefcope, except a few marked as made with mr. bird’s two foot reflector. the lar titude of willoughby fort is 13.° 5’ n. and that of the ob- fervatory 13.° 5... 15°” n. this agrees with the latitude i obs ferved when our fhip came to anchor at our firft arrival in carlifle bay, which, carefully calculated, and reduced to st, michael’s church, gives 13.° 5.’ 30” for its latitude. the obfervatory is about 200 yards due eaft of the church, and willoughby fort is about 1600 feet diftant from the fame, bearing s. w. sothat the obfervatory is about 15’ of jon- gitude, or 1’’ of time to the eaft of willoughby fort. the latitudes of willoughby fort and the obfervatory, fet down above, refult from altitudes of the fun taken with a bafon of quick-filver by the brafs hadley’s fextant made by mr, bird, being calculated from them, and the apparent time known from equal altitudes of the fun taken with the equal altitude infrument. at