pickaninny, — husband and wife; — brodet and sister, 7 — ah! meno bear tink; it break niy heart. le} thought you blacks had no such‘tine feelings, c. me beg your pardon, massa, dat be de whites ; = de blacks all feel. ~ ere ae drea £. and they have a difficulty to part you somes titade eteekon fii) 00 g4: he 07 ai! any ht os oi go .de curst wip do dat,-massa. © , ‘ : e. you had the luck to meet with a good master, however.: i od ah o dis tyre t ccd.) *.c. dey say, my massa good ‘massa, e. and what did he set you todo?" c.. de overseer, after he mark us wid red hot iton, > send me and good many more to de gang to de season- ing. 7 oh, seasoning ! what’s that? . pant si jc, o dey call de two first years de seasoning, den if we live, dey call us good slaves sity ey tees \ £ e, does it kill any of you then? ‘~c., great many, massa, - what sort of work did they set you to? if c. me field-slave ; me-work in de field a-day, and sometimes tend de mills at nights cri.) 5) | j ey is'your work very hard 2, wovad ‘ c. very bard, massa, and work. great many hours; butnegro no mind dat, sé use well and feedd well. £. what do you live on? see : 2. rice, horsebeans,. and sometimes stinking fish ; what whité no eat, he give blacké. ‘¢ £. well; with all you hardships, your must acknow- ledge you are better off :than in. your own barbarous country, full:of lions.and tygers. fyhy f €. but. there beno negro driver, massa! jslstan e. keep in bounds, cushoo; you know in your, own. country you live under barbarous and petty tyrants, in a wild uncivilized state ; -but‘in the west indies you are brought toa civilized state, and live under the pros . tection of our gtacious. sovereign king george.) ) a cceiueniaeitail