c52) to thofe granted to the englih eaf-india compa ny at firft, they would have found there was no reafon to charge his majefty with granting us fuch immenfe or unparallel'd privileges, or afcribing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noife of the guns at namur, as this petulant serib- ler does. dedication, pag. 9. but if #—s and bissubornersexclaim againtt ‘our privileges as immente, they are refolv'd to ddiminith the authority by. which they were grant- ed, and call it only by the name of an odvy, which fignifies no more than a patent ; whereas ‘our privileges were granted us by an ag of par- iament, which are greater and more facred than all the obroys in euwope + thus thro ignotance or ma~ lice they think fit. to. vilify his majetty’s condaét and authority, which they pretend to defend. ‘their malice isforther démonftrated. by the pa- renthetis, (10 be prefum'd).in the ad-pageof thede- cations there they peak of his. may's prom ta imterpofe bis royal authority to do us righ in cafe of difturbance,, and tbat at the publick change! (co be pre+ fad), of. bis antient kingdom, ‘there-might poti-| biy have been fome need of their peflmprioa, had all. mackind been indaw'd wich as-titele senge and honefty as +r and his subotners 5 for no ‘ther body ¢ould ever prefimme it to meanany thing elf@, fincg our aéts do-ot oblige england » tho i they adeprefom’d thar our’ enemies would take] care shanghe faid protnife thoald not be kept, the refu@alof lending our coinpany the 3 ten of wat built at the charge of osown nation would soon haxé convinced the wonld.that xhey' hid pre- fam’d toatrae, came eng 11. we haveccounted for rejecing, me, douglas’ fopotal citwneres ‘or ell we gh pated a—-8% feurrilous refle€ions dit: mr. patérfoa, : which (53) which only difcover his own temper, but do that honeftman nohurt, as to his charging us with fuandring amay 50000 1. on 6 hulks at amfterdam ‘aed | ‘amboreh, purely to make a noife of car proceed ings, &c. we would defire him and his suborners to reconcile it with what they fay from p. 14, to 20. where they own themfelves that the durch and ‘hamburgers were both mightily pleas’d with the delign, p. 14. that the dutch were tickled with the conceit that they fhould be sharers in the scots trade 5 and p.16. they fay, that chat which gave the dead firoke 10 the scots defign, was the ealt and welt-india compas cunning open mouth'd to the lords of arn sterdam, fhewing what was basching by the scots cons mniffioncrs in theor city to ruine she trade of the unis= ed provinces. b.17. they tell us, that the ham burgers thought it the more their intercit to embrace theprojegthe more that the dutch oppos'd it: p.18. that usr afar was generally favourd by the burgers of hamburg 5 and p. 21. ‘that the government of eng= tand fent the senate of hamburgh a gaution by sir paut ricaut to take care bow they fuffer'd their burgbers to embark with us. so that here we condemn ‘them from their own mouths: it being plain from thofe conceffions, that we did not idiy fqnander away our money at hamburgh and amiterdam 5 but that both thofe trading cities approv'd our defiga, and would have engag’d in it, had not the court of england and the duich oppos’d it 3 and therefore what lofs of moay we fultain’d in thofe places, moft be charg’d to their account; fo. that’ — s hath verified the proverb, ‘that liars have need ‘of good memories. | ‘this is not the only inftance wherein chofe of h- sand his suborners have giv'n them the flip; for in the 4th page of the dedication, they bs pbraid early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of burke library, union theological seminary