early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library (6) culture, and husbandry bee maintained and duly kepr, 8. ltem,in every county there fhall be corronors,high she. riffs, highconftables, petty-conftables,and goalors, who are to do their réfpedtive offices as accuftomed; the high sheriffe to be confirmed or nominated by the supreme councell out of three to be prefented by the county councell, and the high sheriffe is required to execute the commands, orders, and decrees of the provinciall and county councell. 9. item, in cities and towns corporate juftice is tobe done, and the lawes executed as is accuftomed. 10. jtem,in every county the high sheriffe fhall be provoft marfhall, and fhall have power to execute a lay man not worth five pounds,andnone other, for murder,man-flaughter, [i burglary, theft, robbery, or other capitall offence, provided the party to be executed may have foure and twenty houres time to prepare his foules and that the supreme or provin- ciall councell fhall and may name more provoft marfhalls, as they thall think expedient, quallified with the like autho. rity. mh item, it is further ordered , that no temporal! go- vernment or jurifdiaion fhall be affumed, kept, or exercifed in this kingdome,or within any county or province thercof, during thefe troubles, other then is before expreffed, except fuch jurifdiétion and government asis, or fhaltbe approved by this generall a ffembly, or the supreme councell. f 12. item, it is further ordered, that whofoever hath en- tred,fince the firt day of ogober 1641. or fhall hereafter, du- ring the continuance of the warre in this kingdom, enter into the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, at or immediately before the firft day of o@ober, either by himfelfe or his under tenants, or by recciving the rents, [flues, or profits thereof, fhall immediately reftore, upon demand, the faid poffeifion to (7) to the party or parties fo put our, with {uch reafonable dam- mages, as the conncell provincial or supreme fhall rhink fit; and if the party refufe to reftore the faid poffeffion as aforefaid, upon demand of the party fo put out, his heires or affignes, made to the faid poffefor, his fervants, or.adherents in the premifes or publication of this order within the parith where fuch land lieth, that upon his or their denial thereof, or defaule therein, he, his heixes and affignes thall: be for ever after debarred and fecluded from all.and every right, ticle, intereft, and demand which he or they may make or pretend toall or any the faid lands, tenements,or hereditaments ; and ifafter fuch deniall or default made, th¢ faid parsy, hishcires or affignes fhall not immediately reftore the pofleffion of the faid lands, tenements, or hereditaments fo gained ,ta the party grieved, his heires or affignes,. that he, they, and his or their adherents in the premifes, fall be declared and pro- ceeded with as enemies. provided, and fo it is meant, that if any of the parties fo pur out be declared a neuter or enemy by the supreme or provinciall councell; then the party who gained the poffeffian, as aforefaid, thall give up the poffeffion to fuch perfon or perforisas fhall be named either by the faid councell provinciall, or supreme councell, to be difpofed of towards the maintenanes of the generall canfey upan the paine and penalty aforefaid. wo andas for the rents andmeane profits. of the faid lands, tenements,and heredicaments,and all kinde of rents,and the goods or chattels taken. oy detained from apy catholike, as aforefaid 5: due farisfaion is to;be made for the. fame to. the parties from whom the reats, gaods, or chattels were or fhall be detained, fince thefe troubles begun, .as the provin- sialk councell,or county gouncell fhall refpedctively arder, 13. hors, ie is furdher ordered and eftablithed for the re b move?'!