c18] complaint, no publick right their claim, or good theix demand ; in all which, the leaft breach of privilege is ufually branded with sucrilege: and though there lyes no appeal tothe difperfed body of the. people, (a decifion ma- nile. ifeltly impracticable in government, and fitter indeed for tribunes to move, than ations to admit) yet (zlettions being fo popular, and conventions frequent) the fame end is attained with much more faféty and convenience. as to the axecutive part-of the prince’s power » he'exercifas it by adiniffers and officers, not only fivorn » but feverely accomptable : and though both heand the zords have their aigatives in paffing of bills, and it be the xing only, that by his royal iat, makes our zaws , yet no zax being im- pofable but by the confent of the commons, nor any law (without it) of fach oie, that the azinifters of hufice will enforce it,thereis a wifeand feet neceffity for the king, and likewift for the zords, to pafé all fach billsas arecon. venient for the peop/e,and not greatly aurtful to the prince. and thofe that duly weigh the rea/on of-things, do finda aigativein the king tobe a moft fafe prefervative of peace to the people, who have as much comfort under the pro- teqtion of his preragative, as they have benefit by their own privileges ; for in truth, this bug-bear lvegative (as our republicans labour to reprefent it) is an impenctrable target, to shelter and fecure the government from being alter’d at the il of the commons, if at any time they. fhould again prove fagtious. this (being in reafon mani- fe(t) has alfo been confirm’d by great experience; our kings having rarely obftru€ted any bill which they might fafely grant ; buton the other fide, pad many high aéts of mévr grace 5 civcumtcribing their prerogative, and clipping its wings, nay better trad it been for us, if they had not piere’d \its very bowels, "this is that 7régle-cord that.could never yet be broken, though it hasbeen gut afunder, thisis our gold even times refiv'd , for every bill, being thrice read, debated, and agreed ish books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc ; | farly english books by courtesy of the john rylands library, university of manchester ed in hither honfe, is at laft brought to the xizg for ie eajal afeat ; ol is the a¢int of our laws: )a tiyat fo exact, that furely no dro/scan éfcape it ; fince all zterej#s mutt thereto concur ; as truly it is but fit they fhould, in the eftablifhment of zhar which mult bind all. thisis that zemperament, which purges our huwors, and (at once) endues us with health, vigour, and beauty: no vote ishere precipitated ; no at huddled up ;.as by fad events, you faw they formerly us‘d tobe, when the power was engrofled by a pretended houle of commons, purg’d and moulded to the z»tere/ts of a fattion a confequence butnatural to fuch premifes) nothing was (there) wéigh’d, but as in a ballance confifting of one scale ; our laws were azandrakes of a nights growth ; and our zimes as fickleasthe /veather of the multitude, the xing has the power of making /var, but thenhe cannot well be faid to have the aeazs ; fo that it does not amount to extraordinary much were, than a ziberty to fy ifhe can get ings. hehasa sword alfo, but himfelf alone, very rarely draws ic: and though he has the fole right in the azlitia, yet is he pleafedto wear it only as adecent weapon, vouchfafing to the nation, in alarge degree, the 4/¢ and benfie of it. he chufes his azinifters 5 ~ fas who doth not his servants?) but then they pafs through i one but the foundeft zategrity can abide. he altho ftroke of fuftice with his pardon,( tho’ ftill, the zaws not being muzzled, it will bite terribly) but then (on the orher fide) the means of relieving his vanes relts in the commons, to ballance his 777, and induce him to nce with parliaments. . feber fhould be sacred, is matt vecdfil, to avoid circulation of accounts, reafonable, fince it carries with it the confent of nitions , fu/}, that he become not the meer butt of fadtion, and afstice, and bein a w or e condition than the bafij? of affals ; ‘damon sley that ° z c ay acove: 5 fi nakednefs of government be not daily uz 5