the' state of the tfland of jamaicai’ 41. exjial prince gharles, king of great bri rt oc. int order to the veforing gnd regulating the fame. for the fu-. tyre; to fend into spain his envoy, extraordinary; sir. william godolphin, knight; withfull authority. and power to make any treaty convenient and proper for that end ; aad siailagie wee fenenp and = ub a king; of spain, orc. and t ween ent); maria anna, = = the carrying on a wot of fo much: piety and pub- lick good, deputed on their part, the earl, of penaran-. da, counfellor of state, and prefident of the indies, to, confer, treat, and’ conclude thereupons, avith the j458 se william godolphin : dt lengeh they, mutually: refolved. and agreed uponthe- articles of the following -tieaty.in, virtue. of their feveral commiffious. fap aes us tween the above nienti-: 7e.treaty of 1667. con- oned plenipotenitiariessir wil- frm. liam godolphin; and the earl of -s.c bs vdeo wy penaranda,, inthe namesof the moft ferene “kings refpegively,: their mafters, that the articles of peace and, alliance, ‘made between the crowns,o great britain) and, spain, in madrid, on the, i may, 1667. -or-any, claufe; thereof; fhall..in. no manner be deemed, or underftood.to.be taken a- way, or abrogated by this prefeat treaty ; but thar the fame fhall remain perpetually in their ancient force, stability, and vigour, fo far forth as they are not: coritfary, |,or repugnant ro this prefent convention andsarticles; orto any::thing therein contained, : ) rypen it is agreed be- t ma : tua tv there/be.an.univer-- ia uniofal peddie wa fal peace, strusand: fincere °f jf sng - amity in ameri¢a, -as in the; io : i 303 03 other