12 ) that this may give usa farther profpect; not only sugar, but ginger too being, as 1 have been informed, avery good com- modity as high as the levant. and if fo, or if there fhould be found any other motive to proceed fo far, i cannot think it altogether impoflible but that fuitable means and proper re- gulations may be thought on. however, the advantages that may arife from any trade can never be fully known but by experience : and this in particular, as it will be among a rich people, plenteous in money, affords at prefent as fair a profpect as any. if then a licenfe for this spanifh trade fhould be deemed advifeable, as i hope it will, it may be no unprofitable part to confider, upon what terms our merchants are like to ftand, with relation to thofe of france, who do carry on, and will {till continue the trade againft them: and herein particularly as to duties. : tue author of the political state, in that for the month of april 1731, has this remark: “ even in exporting sugars “ (fays he) to our plantations on the continent, the french « sugar colonies have a great advantage over ours. for as “ our planters pay four and a half per cent. upon exporting their sugars from their own plantations, and the french pay “ but one per cent. it’s evident that the french may fell their <¢ sugars in our plantations upon the continent three and a half per cent. cheaper than our own colonies can do, grant- ing that the prime coft be equal in both colonies ; which is < an advantage fufficient to ruin any trade in the world. *” but i muft take notice, that the enumerated duty, whiclt is five shillings per hundred on white sugar, and eighteen pence per hundred upon brown sugar, is not there included or con- fidered at all, and which is neareft now ten per cent. more: so that the prefent difference between the french and us, in the duties of sugars upon this trade to north*america, inftead of three and a half per cent. is neareft in reality thirteen and “ cc 4 n~ 4 tn) = page 352, a