\ oe less as giving an account of the;royal anne galley, captain willis command ! which ‘was fplit to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizward the roth of nowimber, 1721. havi nder, lord, belbeoets who was going as governor to barbadoes, with feveral other perfons of diftinavon, n porn the umber on board being 210, out of which there were only three faved ; “e ; 3 he wille golfrry, and phomas laurence, a boy. y three faved ; whofe names are george hain, willian se shesh "i! the fad and difmal story, b brought from off the lizzard the royal ame in ail her glory, there receiv'd a fatal shock lo: the winds and waves did both confpire, ” for to ruin all therein: =. |. oh belhaven ! brave belhaven! * moft unhappy haft thou beens . governor unto barbadoes, he was failing bold’and brave, little dreaming it was his fortune} for to have a'watry grave ; with many mote brave noble perfons) « peg which were put in place of truf, bucoh! their sands were jult expiring, their time was come and die they mutt, above two hundred souls were perifl’d, in an inftant all were loft, : by furious winds and waves were driven, qn the stag rocks they were caft ; oh! the difmal cties and scriekings, twould ‘have pierc’d a heart of stone, when the galley fplic to picces, for to hear their pitious moan. of ail that were on board the veffel, only three could reach the shore, who ona wreck by the winds were carried, thro’ the waves and billows roar : then praife the lord for his great mercy, you ‘that thus have been preferv’d, q \dore and magnifie his goodnefs, ag willingly your maker ferve. captain willis was commander, at this moft unhappy. time, avage to be attorney general, ich many more ju% in their prime, = see ros es res ses es at barbadoes we do hear, but by the ocean they were follow’d, as they did their courfes fteev. whar a scene of difmal horror, there was feen when this was o’te, m4 scdics floating on the ocean, #) by the waves were drove on shore, and the country people running, iving who fhould get the moft, tripping all without diftin&tion, me lis the cuftom of the coaft. having ona one gentleman was drove on shore, rocks *bout whom they found.a thoufand pound, whofe name’s {uppofed to be crofer: by writings in ‘bi 2ockets fon: ? likewife they fay the: lord: belhaven, his shire aatied be the tog is shirt marked bl ting ocean, did to shore his body bring oh! the grief and fad diftra@tion, which this accident ‘hath brought, ; on the wives and near relations, of the perfons that are loft ; + . some for husbands, other fathers, brothers, kinfmen, do lament, with aking hearts, and weeping eyes, -4to think how from them they are rent. but now obferve the difmal story, given by thefe three that’s fav’d, george hain, likewife william gedfrey, and fhomas laurence, a boy ‘tis aid, as to barbadoes we were failing, lord belhaven, he. did fay, come noble boys and jovial sailors, happy may our voyage be. but drawing near unto the lizzard, there the storm began to rife, nething then-but defolation, © ~ did appear befoxe our eyes, such a dreadful scene of sorrow, sure before was never feen, oh belhaven! brave belhaven? moft unhappy haft thou been. captain willis ery’d brave sailors, | do beft, or die we moult, 2800 y have mere pas 4 crying night and day my jewel, lord have mercy, now relieve us} - in thy providence we truft. loe save us in the time of danger, \.:: - for death before our eyes appear;—.. and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell down to prayer. then againft the fatal rocks, the royal galley {plit in twain, two huiidred souls aloud were crying, lord fave us ffom_ the watry main, to fee cach for his life a hifting, as the waves toft mountains high, the galley in the deep a finking, while dying groans did pierce the sky. “to the tune of, wamens work is wever done, &c. . ‘ tice the noble hord belhaven, climbing to the tdp-maft high, | with many mote of birth and breeding, ho likewife‘in the waves did die, at length the gall split in pieces, death put an end to all their woe, we three poor'souls upon a wreck; with waves was tofled too and fro. at length unto the shore was driven} < where the people took us ins 7 ‘we prais'd the lord for his great mercy, since we thus preferv'd have been, and fay’d_us in the fatal hour, when the waves did us furround, and a many souls did perifh, and before our eyes were drown'd. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, wives a weeping for their husbands, the children.for their father dear, let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrow they are ia, .| and think upon the lord belbaven, how unhappy he hasbeen, . anoble lady in the city, — heating of hér husband’s death, stwould have mov'd a heart of pity, to hear the words the did ‘exprefs, crying, o my tender jewel, is a watry wave thy tomb, . pll fearch the deep to find my dear, o cruel death come feize me foom thus he raves in fad diftraction, in her bed with cords fhe’s bound, | he is in the occan drown’d : | thus many 2 mournful widow, “1 and babies fatherlef$ are made, confider then the many dangers, which poor sailors thro’ do wade. . many more that night did perifh, in the storm as we do hear, ‘as in the downs the fleet was riding, some lord belbaven’s fate did fhate , lord keep us from all fuch difafter, deliver us from fudden death, and give us grace that wemay ferve, the: mighty god while we have breathe. early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library