26 piefervatives againft the plagne. perficiall parts, and thereto 29p1¥ the ramps of chickens, reef eaught you , and fo apply o the praee fome ftrong as befottve, and ateradive plaiteror cataplalne, ashereafter matipetewed you. if the greif bein the hhead or throte, spat apply vencoves ro the neck: 1fit be {8 the emunétuaries ther are ee, chen apply them to the thoulders wf inthe €- er ndtuaries of the liver, ehen apply ther 10 ‘the buttocks or thighs, now when isis done, elthes by ‘phiebetomy,or ven~ eoee hen within an hour or oo ar the mow. afterinyou mutt fave the fick fome good cordiall medicine which hath power be ort the heart, refife the venomous mas and alfo drocare fweat , whereof out of the following you may make choice as you litt. an excelent gond povoertocapell the plage, which alfa pre “coketh fareats be roots of gentian, bitte, petaitit, wees 3.4. roots of tormentill, dittander, aay 3 it. red sanders 3- f. fine pearle fe both forts, ana, deis fine bolarmoni eke prepared, fine terra fgillara, ana, 3. vic rindes of citvonsy fed corrall, roots aitat es vnaving of ebony, bone ofa stage heats its fix- teen graines? fragments ofthe five pretiousitones, ana, 3-8. shaving ofa unicorns horn, sacchi, me, 3. 8. leaves of sa a silver, ava, one and balfin number, : makeall chefe in fine powder, every ong feverall by himnfelf, and then mix them all rogether,and give theveof3.i. o” 3. ii. amore orleffe as occarion requireth, aither insorrell, scabios, rote duns benedictns water two of three ouees whereunto ou mutt adde ali sirrap of lemons four citrons, and fiveitwarm , the bularmoniack mut be pounded finall , then bithed in scabies water, and fo dryed. ansther goad powder. be leaves of dittander, called, didtams ontici, roots of termentil, bittanic , pimpernel, gentian, zedoiar , atay 3. i temes ales cicaving, fixemyreb kinds ‘of four citrons, we ana, early english books . online, copyri images reproduced by ne, copyrign © 2019 proquest llc rary of congress prefervatives againft the plague. 27 ua 3 i. mattick satfvon,ana,halfa drach. bolarmoniack prepared as beforefaid, 3il. il thefe muft be made in fine pouder and fo mist together, youmay givetwo feruples, or one drachm thereof with any of the aforefaid wavers. a goad opiat 0 expell ventmse, ond proveke [eat conferve of the floures of burrage, buglof, violets, bice tanie, ana, % ii. venus vriacle 3. it. red terra figillata , fanless 'mchridate, ana 3-i° shaving of ebomie, and harts-horn, ‘orient pearls, roots of tormentill, ana 3 i shaving of unicoras horn, root of angelica, are half sas osinrup of the juice of final sorrell and buglog, sana, fo much as shall fuffice. six all thele cogether inthe form of an opiat, then take ‘ofthe fame opiat, one drachm and half. seabies water, balm, water, ana 3 ii. wer xalwe che opiat inche waters, and drink ic warm, them walk alittle uponit, and then goe to bed and feat. another excelent good means to expell the venom, and procure ‘feat. take a great white onyon, and pick out the come of mid- dle of hin then fil the hole with good venu triacle, of oe oasis tacle, and aqua aite, then ftop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and roft him ip the hot afhes un- fill he be fofe, then fivein it frongly through a cloth,and give. he sk to ‘drinke, and the reft chat remains, pound it all; and apply itto the fore, and (weat upon it al and a0 pny path taken aay of the aforefaid cordials if been a homie inp again, then wath bis mouth wit rofewarer and vinegar, and then. give hin more of the fame again, which mute be proportioned according to the gaancicievomiced for ifallwere vomited, chen give fo souch thore = ifleffe chen according to the (quantity vomnited,and if he vomit that alfo, then give bin dhe. and fo continueit hhh to