(2) our own péoplein england, and pay three times the price for it ; they make the return of allcheir induftry and labourtous; this is the center of their wealth, the place where they lay it up, and where their ofterity {pend it ; therefore to burthen them, is to ruin the moft profitable and moft induftrious part of our own body. but ‘tis objected, that though this be true, it does not appear that laying a duty on their goods here. can be a burthen or ruin to their irade, it being raisd here not there, and paid by the im- peter, ond 10 him again by the retailer, and at laft by the con- jurer, inthe prices of the goods ; all taxes in general being sup- p.fea tobe pasd by the laft buyer. this were a good argument, if fad experience had not made it appar to bea miltake 5 and to convince thofe who are of another opinion, ’caii) be neceffary a little to examine the hiftory of the ‘trade, and of che laft duty impofed upon it. our sugar trade, in general, is but a young manufaéture, and dates its original within che memory of fome perfons now living, andis, pertaps, the greateft improv’d trade, and the moft proh- table to we/and, that is, or ever was in the world. the firft cauie of its rife was from the indifcretion of the portuguefe, who preluming upon their being maiters of the sugar-trade in the brafils, laia a heavy tax on their own sugar, which encourag’d out ifland of barbadoes, to whom firft the way of making of sugar wasdilcoverd, toruniaco the trade; and it has been in vain that the portuguefe faw their error, and have fince endeavour’d to re- trieve it. this is fo dire&t an example, ’tis needlefs to argue it. and whoever knows the sugar-trade, cannot be ignorant, chat ic is not impoffible to be loft by the fame error by which it was ain’d. 8 inthe reign of the late king fames an additional duty was laid upon sugar, notwithitanding all the remonftrances of the traders and planters to the contrary; and yet even then nothing but the pretence that the duty wou’d not affect the planters but lye onthe confumer, witha promife of his majefty to remit ic if ic prov’d otherwife, could make it feem tolerable, but when time demonftrated the fad effet it had on the planter, and they applied for relief, they were anfwer’d, ’7was an unman- aeriy thing to put his vlajefty in mind of his promife. “tis true, if sugar was planted and cur’din england, the duty might lye on the confumer, as ia other cafesit does ; but here the cale differs exceedingly. the planter isthe seller at our market, the merchant here is but the fa€tor; when the planter ships his sugars for england he con- figns them to his faétor to be sold for him, and generally draws bills upon his fa€tor for as much as he fuppofes the produce to be, and fometimes more. upon lasing the duty abovementioned, the experiment was made ; the fadtor had two ways to manage the sugars and bills, and no more. 1. to early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library (3) 1. to accept the bills abfolutely, 2. conditionally, ely of ‘ifhe accepted che bills abfolutely, he would chan fell the g at the murket-price, let it b2 wit it would, to enable siaods a ie a bh payment: au if the produce did not make it » the planter remaia’d d2: } 2 boecatl apon han dtor to the ballance, fo the lofs if he accepted the bills conditionally, that is, to pay wi goods are fold: if the goods did not (el ia time , fe bile wong back protefted , or elf were noted, and lay here at intereft and charges. by both which the planter was a confiderable lofer both in money and reputation. the bayers here knowing too well thefe methods of cheir tr: and that of neceflicy the fagtor mutt fell for che reafons afraid refufed to advance ia price notwithitanding the duty, and with. held buying by a general confent, and the confequence foon an- fwer'd their expettation, for the fattors were forced to sell at the “a price to fupport the credit both of themfelves and their prine tpats. but ome of the molt confiderable faftors being willing all paffible ways for their employers, thipp'd off reat quant ties for holland, hunbourgh, and other parts, but thofe markets being nor able to take off che quintities, and the bills fill following the goods, to enable the exporter to pay the planters bills, as above, the very fame thing follow’d abroad, the goods were forced to de fold to raife the money, and the lof fell ftill upon the poor planter. _ thus, whoever paysthe money, the planter bears the lof, and is left in debt, and confequently undone; for ‘tis quite another thing to be in debt in the weft indies than ’tis in england. . that the planter is not able to bear the duty, at lealt, at this time, is the next thing to be proved , and that is as plain as the other. the war which has lafted now nine years, has been a general prejudice to all trade, but to the wef-jndia trade in particular: andin the wef indies, the iflands of barbadoes and jamaica have been as it were deltin’d to be ruin’d, having belides the war had a complication of difalters, as rhe dreadful earthe quake, and the infurrettion of the negroes at jamaica, the lofs of tyee or four entire fleets from barbadoes, by difafter of weather and hurricanes, together with « difemper brought among them by the men of war, little better than the plague, which {wept away great numbers of their inhabitants. alfo they have raifed forces, and fitted out ships at their own charge for feveral expeditions; and in fhort, befides their loffes at sea by the french, with the ruin of great part of famaica, and st. chriffophers, by their de(ceats, have raifed larger taxes on their e(tates than has been paid by us at home; by which means there is not half the sugar planted in the welt-indies that was bee fore the war. after