5 the art of making sugar. texture, 2 fhining fnowy whitene!s, and fo tranfparent that common print may hrouch the thicke ait gf 2 large loaf. . 3f {cented with different flowers, by ftrewing the he moi cloths, and renewing them as often as the clo sths are des: the w ater, filtering through the cloth. carries the lowers in which their fragrance relides, and er o> tt $e. laoaz relates, | that twelve hundred sounds of refined fugar yield oniy five hundred and forty-fix of fugar royal, the french prepare, in imitation of the reyal, a fort of fugar which they call jucre tappe. ‘lis is no other than the common claved fugar rafped ery fine before dryi ing, and rammed into fmall moulds which havz ‘been pre- viowly moifened with waier. this fort of fugar looks very beauzfal: but as itsparticles have no natural union, they feparate upon the leaft moifture, and run ito melaiies, 3. of sugar-candy. suzer-canay is made from the mufcavado or clayed fugars, by diflolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification fetting them to cry- falize or fhoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnifhed with a number of fell flicks laid acrofs for the fuger to fhoot upon: their lower aperture is almoft clofed, fo as to fulter the part which remains liquid to filter through very flowly. when the fugar is fuficiently boiled, it is carried with ail pofiible expedition into an hot flove, immediately poured into the moulds, and the ftove kept ftrongly heated. the fugar concretes upon the fticks into cryftaline maffes, ofa white or brown colour, according as the fugar was pure or impure. ¢ appendix. the art of fermenting and diftilling melafles, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit, 1. of the fermentation of the cane futce in general, all kinds of {weet vegetable juices are capable of being converted, by means of now fermentation, into vinous liquors, w hich may either be preferved i in that form, or made to yield by ciftillation an inflammable fpirit; by a hafty fermen- tation, or 2 flow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars, the native juice of the fugar cane, as it is eminently fweet,is likewife in a particular manner aipoted co ferment ; but without a great deal of addrefs runs, beyond the procefs of vinous fermentation, into an acetous ftate. after it has undergone a degree of fire, it kecomes le fufceptible of thefe changes; and does not ferment readily without the 2 itn ance of ffuch matters as promote this operation : fuch is the ower or head which arifes upon liquors during fermentation, ss, ; here