102 th laws of jamaica. m——_ ufual rates, to land fuch goods at, or carry them from any publick wharf, barkadier, 1712. .or landing-place ; and that the perfons belonging to fuch whar's, barkadiers, or land- “——_ ing-places, fhall be, and are hereby required to permit the fame : and whofoever fhall ofend contrary to the true intent and meaning of this aét, thall, for every fuch of- fence, forfeit the sum of forty shillings ; to be recovered before any magiftrate of the parifh or precinét where fuch offence is committed. boat-hire. v. anp be it further enacted by the authority aforefaid, that within one month af- j ter the day of paffing this act, the fare and hire of a wherry with two oars, between port royal and kingston, fhall be four ryalls; and between pert royal aforefaid and pa/- fage fort, the like sum of four ryalls ; and between kingston aforelaid and paffage fort, : the sum of fix ryalls ; and from port reyal or kingston to the feveral places tollowing, the hire and fare of fuch wherries with two oars fhall be as follows, viz. to st. fames’s ; fort, five shillings; to bull bay, ten shillings ; to yallows, twenty shillings; to morant, ' or port morant, forty shillings ; to old harbour, pig bay, the bogne, or salt river, one pound, and fo in proportion; that is to fay, one half more than the prices refpettive- ly, as aforefaid, for wherries with four oars. how long vi. anp be it further enacted by the authority aforefaid, that fuch wherrymen, as wherrymen aforefaid, fhall be, and are hereby obliged to ply from break of day to eight o’clock er: 2 night, under the penalty (if he be a white man) that he fhall forfeit ten shillings ; and if he be a negro, he fhall fuffer thirty one lafhes, to be ordered refpectively by any magiftrate, before whom complaint fhall be made. vii. anp be it further enaéted by the authority aforefaid, that weights and scales qynersof hall be kept by all owners or perfons employed for the keeping of publick wharfs; keep scales for barkadiers, bays, and landing-places in this mand, to weigh, if required, all sugar, in- she weighing digo, piemento, cotton, and other plantation goods, which fhall come to fuch wharf, ‘i bay, barkadier, or landing-place, and the weight thereof refpectively fhall be entered into a book at each place to be kept for that purpofe ; and for fuch weighing and en- tring into fuch books, as aforefaid, they fhall be paid fifteen pence for every hogfhead, and feven pence halfpeny for every draught, be it more or lefs, of other goods of all sorts which fhall be fo weighed and entered, as aforefaid : and all wharfingers and other perfons which, fhall receive any benefit at any fuch wharf, barkadier, or landing- place, fhall give, or take care that receipts be given for all goods which fhall be de- livered to them by any perfon demanding the fame, fuch goods having been firft weigh- ed, as aforefaid: and whofoever fhall offend, either by negleéting to procure fuch scales and weights, or in not weighing the goods delivered to them, and entering the fame in a book, as aforefaid, or not giving fuch receipts, as aforefaid, upon demand ; every perfon fo offending, fhall, for every fuch offence, forfeit the sum of twenty pounds ; to be recovered in the supreme court of judicature of this ifland, wherein no effoin, proteétion, or wager of law fhall be allowed, or non vult ulterius profequi be entered ; any law, cuftom, or ufage to the contrary notwithftanding. viii. anp be it further enaéted by the authority aforefaid, that the ‘owners or pro- prietors of any hackney coach or coaches, chariots, and four wheel chaifes, which fhall ply upon the road for hire, fhall have one white man for each.fuch hackney coach hire, coach or coaches, chariot, or chaife which fhall fo ply for hire; and the hire and fare fhall be as follows, viz. for each coach to and from paffage fort to spanifh town and back again, that carries four paffengers, thirty shillings ; for each coach that car- ries three paffengers, five and twenty shillings ; and for two paflengers; or for one paffenger in any fuch hackney coach, chariot, or chaife, twenty shillings, and no more. ix. ann be it further enaéted by the authority aforefaid, that the owners of all carts or waines that fhall carry goods for hire, fhall be obliged to keep one white man for the firft cart or waine, and one white man more for every two fuch carts or waines a they fhall keep befides the firft, to go forwards and backwards with fuch carts and waines 5 nee de and that the fare and hire for fuch cart and waine fhall be as follows, viz. for each \ \) are ee hogfhead of sugar, five shillings ; for each barrel of beef, flour, herrings, or mack- lae hd ~~" arel, the sum of one shilling and three pence, and fo in proportion for carriage of other mee by goods from spamifh town to paffage fort, and no more. x. anp the owner of each fuch hackney coach, chariot, or chaife, as aforefaid, (q al} bei owners of . ’ " . py | ll hackney and of each cart and waine, or fome perfon for him or her, fhall give in an account we a bi pac iaatinkd * upon oath at each seffion of the number of hackney coaches, chariots, chaifes, carts, ee ed oath an ac- and waines which they keep refpectively, and of the names of the white man or men a count of the — particularly kept for each hackney coach, chariot, chaifé, cart or carts, waine or j ht number of ah ‘ ‘ : on ‘| coaches by waines ; which oath the juftices at cach seffion are hereby impowered to adminifter pb if ihemkept.aad and receive : and whofocver fhall offend contrary to the intent of this act, either in 4 by n ° i keeping fuch white man for each fuch coach or coaches, chariot, chaites, cart or nualles. waine, or in not making fuch oath, for every fuch offence fhall forfeit the sum of -—) hee be ne - =——4 = o