[6] but the bill fays; faétors fhall/no longer be traded’ to, than whilft under the protection. of. the ambaffador or confuls : to thisic' is anfwered, that they muft continue {fo for their, own, security, otherwife they muft immediately fall into the state of subjects of the sultan, and: muft pay the poll tax; and as to the-regulations of the'company, they will be under, {mail. i -of fubmitting, to them ; for in a little time their nation muft have the forming thenr. but this does not f therm from their own nation, or exempt’ them from. its. jusifdiction, to which they are, by the ftrongeft motives, bound. it has beén urged, that thefe englifb yews are in no connexion with thofe of turkey, but will live feparate as englifomen: but itis known they are the very fame people ; for, as well thofe, as thefe, are generally refugees from italy or spain. and thofe very perfons, who have thoyght themfelves moft interefted iri the event of this bill, are no more englifomen, than any conftantinople few may be at any time by denization. _ it is known to all’ who have lived at meppo, that the leghorn fews, who live. there under french proteétion, wear their beards, and live and: converfe altogether with the ews. of the place, with whom they intermarry. the chief partner of the yew at smyrna, who has been, cited.in_ a late cafe,.does the fame at smyrna; and it is known, that they all contribute, in fome form or other, either by a rate-or ftee gift, to the mairtenance of the national poor ; which is a.heavy charge, and many ‘of them have been heard,to;complain of it as.fuch, several’ of the éws now living at cénftantinople, and elfewhere, are defcended from fuch as eae tae italy under fome foreign protection ; but,.mixing there with their own people, the next neration of them became subjetts:of ‘the sultan::. the fame thing will.no doubt happen with the englifh ews ; and as to fuch of them as may not marry, there are not wanting induce- ments to their confidering themfelves as at home in turkey. the protection given to stranger jews, by the chriftiam ambafladors in turkey, is very dif pale what the englifh fews ‘are to'have from’ this:bill ; forthofe stranger fews are not conhdered’ as the subjects of any one of the states by whom they are protected, but as. sub- jects of states not in amity with the porte,’ and who are allowed to, refort to turkey, under the,rroteétion of fome one of the nations eftablithed there : but they are not received into the community of atly of the nations they’are under, ‘of havea place at their national aflemblies ; nor can. thofe who are protected by france, who are the greater number, trade to or from, af any difficulties, they are to be helped out at their, own particular ex- fraig: ; and, in cafe‘ ences they py their confulage, ‘and’ are exempted from being treated as subjects of the ‘ountry; and even in this, their pretenfions are to be treated with great moderation. “fhe turks allow the proteétion of their own’ subjects by forcign ambafladors, with the commiffion of an honorary druggqman in’ the “fame manner ; and a vizier, or other great minifter, will often afk this as a favour, in behalf of a yew or chriftian they may be dif- poled to favour. _ the other reafon againft admitting the yews into the levant company, is, that they. will in time get all the trade into their own hands; bur this is the leaft inconveniency that can happen eal propofed regulation: this apprehenfion is founded folely on the preference they will have om their fichier in turkey: the large communities of hews there, have a great influence, which ‘will be employed in favour of their brethren againft the king’s chriftian subjects; and it muft will bear them down in the end. they are not afraid of the skill or induftry of the fews ; joe are in every man, as god'has given him talents, and he has employed them: nor are they p igaeds the fews, by their oeconomy, can go cheaper to market than they; for they have 1. as many inftances of vanity and exccfs in turkey, amongft them, as amongft any other set of people and their national expences there muft.be great. there have, indeed, been sug- or that they could do bufinefs for lefs commiffion : but this is an abufe; and there was tely a very flagrant inftance at conftantinople, of a few hloufe, which had pretended to mighty matters of this kind ; and a great circulation was carried on for fome time, but all ended in a andalous failure ; the two partners difappeared ; fome of the creditors upon the place got fome- what in a fort of scramble, but for the foreign correfpondents, who’ were chiefly at venice and ahlland, there was not any thing left. what, therefore, the king’s chriftian subjects hope for, i, that they fhall not, by this bill, be put within the reach of a moft undue influence and pre- ference ; which mutt be the cafe, if the fews come at all into this trade. te