c23 planters intended to have addrefs’d to this parliament , for reducing the book of rates to the prefent value of sugars. thislow value of the commodity caufes the inhabi- tants ofthe englifb colonies to forfake them , and remove fp co other places, whilft the king of france ufeth all ima- .o ts se re i re, op ad ww es — to ™ um er. ee “ _— 22. 28 ginable induftry to ftrengthen and fill his plantations ; (fome of which are in fight of ours) with inhabitants, having made dunkirk a free port for his own sugars, where no cuftomsare paid in or out; by reafon of which the markets of flanders and holland, &c. are furnifhed with french sugars at 2s. 6 d. per hundred cheaper than the exglifb can, by reafon of the acts of trade and na- vigation. this increafe of the strength of the french plantations and decreafe of the english, hath made many of the plant- ers confider of with-drawing their stocks , for fear if a war fhould happen with france all would be loft. the english sugar trade being apparently decaying under the prefent impofitions upon sugar , can by no means bear more and fubfift; and itis of great advan- tage to france to have our plantations ruined by more impofitions on their sugars: for fhould the french gain the sugar trade from the exglish , england would lofe the imployment of 400 sail of ships and 8000 seamen, and france would gain it, which would differ the prefent ballance of seamen 16000 , befidesthe lofs of a native commodity , that hath brought fo much wealth to ithe kingdom , and would alfo bethe lofs of the trade of africa for negro’s. it hath been ever the practice and policy of trading nations, to fetthe publick taxes on foreign commodi- ” ties and not thofe of theirown growth. 3 in the ume of the ufurper cromwell, when all things were