( 43.) houfe ladle, and another putting in a quart at a time. let the heat of the liquor be now raifed to 140 leorees of the common pocket thermometer, let this eieat be continued one hour. skim it care- fully. to five gallons of water put ten ounces of white marle, tobacco pipe clay, or other white bo- lar earth: if you have not any of thefe, ten qunces of buller’s marth. let ic be previoufly powdered, and well mixed with the water. stir this in as the lime and water were directed to be; increafe the heat to 160. continue it half an hour,---skim. --increafe | your lieat to 190. continue it half an hour.---skim. lncreafe the fire to 200, and fhut the door of your fire plaze, which puts it out. let your liquor re- main four flours undifturbed, and then draw it off into the receiver: if your procefs fucceeds your liquor will be as bright as madeira wine. i fhould obferve that when you have done filling one clarifyer you go on to the next, repeating the fame precefs, from the receiver your liquor ts to to be conducted into the firft copper. fer fear of burning, you may throw a gallon into each copper hung to the fame fire, but after let your liquor run intu the oft copper: when full, by means of the (jroove it will fill the fecond; and fo on to the laft coppers when all are full let a fmall ftrcam run inte tla fift copper juit fufficient to equal the evapora- tion and keep them all full. by this management as the firit copper receives the frefh liquor, it’s con- tents will be conflanily diluted; the contents of the fecond will be more dilute than thofe of the third, aii fo on to the lait copper; where the liquor will