or, the earl of ee their queen, and i am.weary of the load, and want a friend like iy to lull my sorrows. c. eff. behold thefe tears sprung from fierce pain and joy, to fee your wond’raus grief, your wondrous pity. o that kind heav’n wou'd but inftrud my shemghee, and teach my tongue fich foftning, healing words, that ie might charm your soul, and cure your breaft for ever. ween. thou art my better angel then, and fent to give me everlafting quice say, is’e not pity that fo brave a man, . and one that once was reckon’d asa god, that he fhould be the author of fuch ‘treafons? that he, that was like ce/ar, and ‘fo-great,’ has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou’d ftoopto gain a petty throne from me ? c. ef. i can’t believe tis in-his soul to think, much lefs to a& a treafon. againft: you, your majefty, whom i have-heard him fo commend, that angels words did never flow with fo much eloquence, fo rare, fo fweet, that nothing but the subje@ cou’d deférve. =. haft thou chen heard him talk of me? c. ef. 1 have, and as of fo much excellence, as. if. he meant to make a rare encomium on the world, the stars; or what.is brighter, heav'n sheis, faid he, the goddef of ‘her sex, 5 so far beyond "all woman-kind -befide, that what in themis moft ador’d,, andlov’d, their beauties, parts, and.other omaments,;' are but in her the foils to. greater latftre, ' and all perfeétions elfe, how: rare foever, are in her perfon but as leffer "gleams, .° and infinite beams that ufher: {till che sun, 19 f but fcarce are vifible amidit her other brightnefsio2 = +..1 and then fhe is fo good, it mighvbe faid,- witois that whilft thelives, a:goddels reigns is england: for all her laws are regefter’d in rave os 38911 « and copy’d thence by her. but -then,he- cry” with a deep figh fecch’d fromshis-loyal hearty) <2; ‘wellmay the world bewaibithat,time at laf, m when fo much goodnefsfbelt,on barthibe cmnanaly and-wretched england josealeits: pera queen. did he ay all this?) 2 a } c. ef: all-this! nay ‘more; : & thonfand times: as. much, i never fiw ‘hime t