( 837 ) iil 4 letter of that curiuzs naturalift mr.henry barham, r s.s. to the publifher, giving a re- lation of a fiery meteor feen by him, in jamaica, to ftrike into the earth, with remarks on the weather, earthquakes, &&c. of that ifland. str, ccording to your requeft i have collected what a lcantemember, relating to a meteor i {aw in jamaica about the year 1700, as i was riding one morning from my habitati-n fituated about three miles north.we8 from sr. jago de la vega: vfaw a ball of fire, appearing to me of the bigneis of a bomb, fwiftly falling down with a great blaze. as | thought ic fell into the town; but when | came within a quar- ter of a mile of the town, i {aw many people gathcr’d together a little to the southward in the suva2ea, to whom i rode up, where they were admiring at the ground’s being ftrangely broke and plough d in by a ball of fire, which, as they faid, fell dowa there. i obferved there were many holes in the ground, one in the middle of the bignefs of a man’s skull, and five or fix {maller holes round about it, of the bignels of a man’s fift, and fo deep (efpeciaily the biggc ) as not to be fathom’d by what long switches or siicks they had at hand. edid not hear that any was fo cu- rious as to make any farther search: it was obierv‘a, that the green grafs was perfectly busnt near the holes, and a ftrong smell of sulphur remain‘ thereabonrs for a good while after. note that we had a terrible rainy night be‘ore, with much lightning and gecat thundcr-claps, wach we havg the royal society is collaborating with jstor to digitize, preserve, and extend access t philosophical transactions (1683-1775). © www. jst orf tor.org