130 of canzonets, “away i walt with exres by night in vaine teates,fighesby night, by day enceeafeehis pxine. minceyesno eyes, but fountaines of my teares, “my teares no ceates,butfloodsto moyét my hearts ‘myheart no heat, but labour of my feztes, ‘my fears no feares, but feelings of my fmare. ‘my finaresrny fearesy my hear, my teres, enine cies ‘arcblinde, dride,fpent, pall, walted with my cries. ‘and yet mine cic, chough blind, e'cault of griefe, ‘and yet ny wares, though deide,runnedowne amaine ‘and yet my hear, though fpenty attends relicfe. ‘and yee my feares, though palt,encreafe my paines ‘and yer hive, and living feele more fer, ‘and imarting,ery in vaine, breake heauy heart. xxx! canzonet. defies gouernmsent, wiss isouer-ruldby will, and willisledby fond defice, ‘ti ere xenfon were as good be fill, ‘as fpeaking, kindle grexerfice, for where delireduth bearethefiway;, ‘theheart multrule che head obay. ‘what boot =the cunning pilots sill, ‘totell which way co tape the courle booke j. ‘whnen ie dae uters will hai his will, nd drive cea where litt pe force, so reafon fhewes the truth in vaine, ‘where fond delice as king doth signe i. canzonet, lanes prperitse wixt heat and cold, r’wixt death and lifes frcezeand burneiiveand di whichioynely worke in me fh fit j tiue in death;in cold 1 ga nor hot, nor cold, norliue, nor dead, “neither, and both, this life i lead. fist burning heae fts all on fire, ‘wherehy i fzemein ames tofiy : then exld deipsireilshor defire, that drenched deepe, indeath ilye. heate driuesovt cold ad keepes my i gold quencherh heare, 0 endof file ‘the leffe hope tohaue my will, the more i feele deireencreale, and asdefireenereafeth fi defpaire co quench e doth not ceule solive lasthe lamps, whotelight ‘die comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. ka early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc fee eeeaeced bb exirnee a thee heat ley