west indies. 179 und fuddenly to abolith the exiftence of the com- merce would not be productive of real difadvanta- ges, in place of effecting the end defired by thofe who are eager for fuch ftrong and {peedy meafures? for folving this important queftion, we mutt take into view, not only the fituation of the flaves in africa, but of thofe already in the weft indies. in the fir place, it is falfe reafoning to fuppofe that britain, withdrawing her fhare from the gene- ral demand, will effe€ a decreafe of the quantity brought to the market; for although in other kinds of commerce the fupply is generally regulated by the demand, yet in this inftance the rule will not hold. when two african ftates are at war, the captives are dealt with in proportion to their ftrength and appearance. the old and infirm are maflacred on the fpot; fuch as are able to travel a long journey. are led to the fea-coaft, and of thefe all who are rejected are immediately put to death. from this it appears, that were britain to withdraw her demand, there would be left a fuperabindance of about 38,000 every year; who, unlefs bought up by other nations, muft inevitably be facrificed to the difappointed avarice of the black trader. in- ftances, indeed, of this barbarous practice are fo numerous, that they have been frequently perpe- trated in fight of our own fhipping ; fo that in this cafe the remedy becomes abundantly more horri- ble than the difeafe. secondly, let an unprejudiced mind reflect upon the fituation of the remaining negroes, in the weft l ij