368 «= wits common —part.z. ‘as the zchiope cannot change his sin roche ae ae his tee & as it is'not pofibleo gather grapes otter eggs tes hoi js to no purpole co force any thing to firiue againt nature. ms “asin tilingofthe ground and hut. bandrie, there is fir chofen a file foile, thena cunning fower, then good feed teuen fo wemult compare natize to the atearth,the expert husbandman rothe schoolemafter, the faculeiesand scenes othe pure ls ‘as the feril foile ificbeneuer tlle doth waxbarren :(othat whichis mot nobleby nature, is mademoftvileby negligence. eee torch wurned dowoenardt extinguithed withthe felfefame axe, sqhieh was the cafe of his light: fo nacure tuned to vnkindaelle is quenched by thofe meanes i dhould bee kindled, ieaving no branch of oue, where is found no roote of bu- -manitic. newt ‘copyright © 2019 es puta. — weat, 18 : rewer $ coote with for a ple red of eattell, and fitherd of fihes: fo bafie-brained innauatersdoe func afer newes, and innovation in flates plate we ‘as wee fet vp meate fromcatsand fo we mufbtake heed, whac we fpaicbeore nemes monger, aodin- iuating inclligencers. dem. ‘asourbodies are moreindangered bye spring cin amare by elon ofchange = foall noueltie doth offend and butthe common-wealth, of meate, drinkeandsire » abet ic be inco likey orintoberter : it isberter ill core sinconold princedand magia 0, new, becauie all ine moi of danger and diftur. te as called homer fromthe eat ocho ‘other caufe, butto know ‘rom what parentage he wasdefoended: fomany take greatpaines, aadbeflow smuchcoft, onely eaheare newes, and scene ¢ 30cap.2s 5 ree