bt- an- hill re a ing vail ifa~ et 15 day sof fter om - ids, ons 1 in ur. ves, pro- nor hey can r of the the ney cing ioral e, be for is ig in ving ery. hold- fhare letus dimi- pofi- iality ous p irvic- e the 1 nei- ild be on be rs lexif- » bind iftrefs which btlets = —-- + + -~~ out duty to contribute our fhare; and to a&t from confci- [5 ence, as we fhould in fimilar cafes from feeling and inclination. for intlance; let us fuppofe the algerines to eftablifh fugar plantations, and refort tothe banks cf the thames for flaves. suppofe our wives, our hufbands, our children,our parents,our brethren, {wept away, and the fruit of their labour, produced with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs, landed at the port of london, what would be our condu& ? should we fay, “sugar ‘is aneceffary of life: i cannot do without it. befides the quantity i ‘ufeis but fmall: and though tt be very criminal in the algerines-to en- * flave others, lam not bound to look to the nature or confequence of the *tranfaétion. paying for the fugar, [havea right to coun it, how- ‘ever ié may have been odtuined.”’ lf fuch would be our language in that cafe, be it fo on the prefent occafion, for let us recolle& that in both cafes the enflaved are our brethren, and let us only fuppofe an’ englifhman were to receive inju- ries, that bore but the flighteft relemblance to thofe daily com- mitted in our iflands, the nation would be inflamed with refent- ment, and clamorous to avenge the injury. andcan our pride fugselt, that the rights of men are limited to any nation, or to a- ny colour? wereany one to treat a fellow creature in this coun- trv as we do the unthappy africans in the weft-indies ; ftruck with horror, we fhould be zealous to deliver the oppreffed, and punifhthe oppreflor. are then the officesof humanity and func- tionsof juftice to be circum{cribed by geographical boundaries? can reafon, can con{cience juttify this contraft in our condu€, between our promptitude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the other?—mr. addifon juftly obferves, that ‘ humanity to be- come eftimable muft be combined with juftice.” but we feem to actas if we thought, that the relief of our fellow creatures, and protection from injuries, were works of {upererogation ; to be granted or with-held, as caprice, or inclination may 208 after the important conliderations adduced, it might be rec- koned a degradation of the fubjc& to mention the national dig- nity; oreven that might inducc us to counteratt a powerful bo- dy of men, who are trampling under foot, the diétates of huma- nity, and the intereft of the nation: men, who have received for fugar alone, above a million per ann, more than it would have colt at other markets. from mr. botham’s evidence it appears, that in batavia, where labour is as high as in england, fugar ¢- qual to the beft weit-india, is fold at 1d} per pound, thete are the men who are calling onus‘to aid the operation of theirwhips by the terrors of our bayonets; and to mifapply the:public trea- {ure to {upport individuals in violating every principle of law and juftice, and to defend them inthe moit dreadful tyranny over half amillion of perfons, born in iflands, which, when it ferves their purpofe they pretend to be ours; but of which they have vicwniy ufurped the fovereignty ; and have the audacity to tell the britifh legiflature, “that they cannot abolifh the flave trade; for that if england refufes to furnifh them with flaves,