the epiftle dedicatery, violent ? and on the contrary, upon the kind afpects of the sun, jupiter, and venus, they be not more gentle, si se sie sie se sie sis sat . fo, ef he te sy se se ss ss fe mild, and refrigerating ? and alfo, whether the arifing the names of the feverat gove rn ours of your pleiades, hyades, and conftellated eagle, de. - (chiefly when any eminent conjunction or afped falls in with them) donot certainly induce moifture ¢ i befeech you ( my honoured and worthy friends) ta take fome notice of thefe matters, which you may eafily i). 1 tx honourable col. d’oyley, do, by keeping a diary of the weathers as alfo of the effects of your vernal ingreffes, (which i intend, god permitting me life, once a year to prefent you withals ) and pray ye alfo obferve, together therewith, the tranfits, conjunctions, orcs of the planets over the prime parts of your iflands palladium, or genefis 5 that they may be preferved by your generous communication, as well for the advance of truth in science, as advantage of your selves and country. thus, worthy friends and countrymen, wifhing yor all happinef, and, as fo many fuceefsful columbus’s, }, to encreafe as well in your acquaintance with the influ- ences of the glorious diamonds of heaven, as in the gold and treafure of the indies; which ( if st- paul may be credited, rom.1-19.) willlead ye certaimly unto an enjoyment of that immortal treafure, of which saints and angels partake in heaven i remain, \ to your honoured selves, and to the brick-court, by truths of ajtrologie, a real the deans-yard, servant, whilft, weltminfter. 7 —., john gadbury,. f jamaic a, [ince the taking thereof by the englith, anno 165 5. was gover nour thereof, firlt after its being taken. . 2. the right honourable the lord of windfore, was governour thereof. a 3. the honourable sir thomas modyford, knight and baronet, was governour of this noble ilan > and he it was that -ommanded a gceueral surveign to be taken of it, at his own charge > and under him it began eminently to falourith. ali sir thomas _ the honourable and valiant ‘tho lynch, knight, ficceeded six thomas mod yfo d, and ig the prefent governour thereof > and under him hath this gallant country happily improved. rears book, 1 fhall ( god permit- re you ample chronology of to this noble liland 5 tof the commoditi¢s, ee inmy ne | ting, ) give you a mor the remarkables relating together with an accoun and exowth thereof. nna a table’