they slid, ¢ ~ tha , ting, 1 ce ud my, uth fel fn rate yl ty noto abe onl th lon of com re i, qa! cig 2 0 ly a) mi pl a cdl pe rok rum fol ¢ ite iin eh he fine ole io, distor (6358) that as tothe virginia tyade, which brings greateft advantage to his: majefty, the merchants of ?7e/and are in a manner wholly cut off from that trade, ‘except they will dtive it to the utter ruin of the kingdom. (which they refolve not todo ) for neither provifion, nor horfes will (0 off at virginia; nor ave servants to be had to fach numbers as to en- able that trade; ‘and’the’ export of their manufacture is prohibited. so that if they will drive that trade, they muft do it with cath, and turn all the lictle money they have into smoak, or be at the exceffive charge, double hazard and’expence‘of time, to come unto, and return through eagland with that ( as all other plantation commodities ) which hath occafioned frequent lofs of seafons, and of ships and car- go’s to the'lofs of the duty to his majefty, and ruin of many merchants; as they made appear in very many’deplorable inftances, too long to be here inferted. , they fay, that whereas by an act of the 25. car. 2. for. better fe- curing the plantation trade; it is enacted, that if any ship or veffel,’ which by law may trade in any of the plantations, hall come to take on board any plantation commodities, and that bond fhall not, be firft’ given, with fufficient surety to bring them to england, wales, or bar- mick, that there fhall be paid'there on white sugars 5 s. per cent. on, mufcovados 8d. per cent: on tobacco 3 dy per pound, ee: which afford- ed fome’eale to the diftrefled merchants of /reland in returning, with- out being neceffitated to come to’england to-enter. yet thar door alfo hath been {hut against ireland by the artifice of the arbitrary commiffioners of the cuftoms in england. for‘ contrary to the plain import of that law, there was a ship of england which paid that' duty inthe plantations, feixed and condemned, under pretence that thut\ ag was only intended for the trade between plantition and: plantation, xlrbeigh there is: nothing in the ag that - gives conntenance to that conftruttion. sro “that tho” the manufactures of ireland are few, and'that the moft con fiderable of them is linnen, which interferes not with the manufacture of england, and that the quantity exported in times of free trade to’ the plantations was but'{mall, yer the suftenancé of a good number of the moft neceffitous of theit people depended: wholly on'that little, and - that they cannot fubfift'barely by air, more than’ the people of eng. land. thar by reafon of the eafinefs to fabfilt in ireland, the reftraints on trade, the difficulty,’ if not impoffibility ( now ) to grow rich by trade,'and the cheapnegs of land ; merchants are inclined ‘to’ purchafe, rather-than trade that from hence ‘and the mean’ way of living of the natives; paucity of inhabitants, little demand of the native com- mmodities in forreiga’ markets,’ the ‘want-of any’ peculiar commodiry, a