16 concerning aliens sir peter killigrew's; uftayed but few hours at penryn (the wind bez ing at northweft, which was (air to.fet sail for holland) but went that night for falmonth, where i found that my information was truc, and it being swnday the next day, i intended only tohave an eye upon the ship, and, on monday to examine intd the truth of the whole. burton sanday morning, to my furprize, € was invited to dinner by sir peter ; accordingly | waited on him, and after din- ner he cook me afide, and told medivers things relating ‘0 that which made me very much admire, for:that [ knew sir perer not bred.a merchant, and that this ship in particular was dupatch'd by mr. bryan rogers a great merchant in that place: but i foon found out the meaning of his being fo earneft, and it was this, sir peter killigrew had a little before built a key ar the rump end of thetown of falmouth, and houfes thereon; which key he got b friendthip to be declared the only publick key for shipping and un- foading of goods and merchandize, according to the dof frauds 14 car, 2. which did belong to that town and other ports adjacent, though to that very place it is no more proper, than for all the goods that come into london to be landed at ratcli @) anda merchant dwelling in the body of the town, near the market~ place, protefted that the charges of landing his goods at that key, and bringing them to his houfe, coft him as much as the fraight thereof trom plymouth did, (which js about 20 leagues di- ftant,) alfo the cuftom-houfe &c._ was newly fettlcd there, and this was, the firft ship of any great concern that ever had unloaded at that key, which had adted foil, that he doubted it might admi- nifter new matter of debate, éc. in fine, i promifed. sir peter not toad any thing till morning, and then would be as moderate as the cafe would poffibly bear, and sir peter promifed the ship, (being a l » henry sutton mafter,) fhould noc ftir; and fowe parted, with intention to meet again next morning ; on-which i went towards my lodging andin the way-met mr. dae néel shewell the surveyor, with whom j had fome difcourfe, and then went intomy lodging, being the sign of the f eece, kept b mr. dennis rujiel, notary publick, and then mayor of the town; thad notbeen there long before mr. mayor came accidentally into our company, and {aid, he shonght the quaker was mad, ( meaning satton the after of the.ship) for that he was bunting about. for his men to get themon board, in order to fet sail immediately for amfter- dam: then ‘twas high time for me to ftir, and accordingly .1 did, - getcing called the experiment of london early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library trading in england 17 getting on board as foon as poffibly i could, where i laida ftop on the ship, put wayterson board, @c. to fecure her; and becaufe f knew all the officers in falmonth had (ome hand in her illegal dif patches, gc, and that i could depend on the friendfhip of none there but mr. george wethiell deputy cuftomer, and mr. peter hill land-wayter ; i fenttomr. thomas enys collector of penryn for affiftance, which 1 readily had, and fo the ship was ftopt: the next morning early, i had notice that the mr. endeavoured to force his way, on which i applyed to major collins deputy governour of pendennis caftle, under the right honourable my lord arandel of trerice, for affittance in cafe of neceility ; who frankly complyed with my requeft, and affured me the ship fhould not gooue with- out my order; then i returned tomect sir peter killigrew at cuftom- houfe, where 1 found both him and mr. rogers; 1 told them on what grounds j had ftopt the ship, that the goods were forfeited by the acts of tuunage aud poundage the 12, article to the bock of rates. and by other sratures, they being fews goods, which oughe to pay dies cuftom, andcontrary to law had been all entred in the name of henry sutton an englifoman: they both feemed con.. cerned at the difcovery, and uled many arguments to perfwade me to lec the ship pafs 5 and particularly, for my fo doing, i fhould have §0 guineys, and the beft horfe sir perer had : bue all their arguments prevail'd no farther with me, than that [ would give thema meeting again next morning, by which time i had got the following information from five sca-men belonging to the fame ship on oath, 14, e thomas bummer, richard randall, v ' nicholas downing , thomas dawfon, seanens avigavn. and robert adamfon mariners, jately belon ing to the good ship, the experiment of london, enry sutton muafter, of the burthen of three bundred tuns or there abouts, laden with sugars and other commodities, bound from the iflaud of barbadoes to fome port of england , and from thence to amfterdam: and apon the holy evangelitt do freely and voluntarily sweary that they arrived in the port of falmouth in the kingdom of england, ov or about ihe 27th. day of september laft paft from the faid ifland of barbadoes. andthef: deponents farther fay, that the greatest quantity of the sugars and azer- chandizes loaden on board the faid ship, do really belng ta jews, and particularly to aaron barfcoe, abraham barralle, one redhigo and ewis