book vi. iland of barbados. 162 pursuain, wuhite avd rep. t hese differ very little, if any thing, from thofe in england, - except in the ranknefs of their growth kere. they are generally boiled and ufed, when more valuable greens are not in plenty. the arabian jessammy; lat. jasminum five sambac ~~~ arabum. es s is a woody creeping vine, cloathed with dark-green fharp- - pointed leaves, of about two inches lang, and one broad, bear- ing seven-leaved white fragrant, flowers. thefe are fupported by seven very fharp-pointed graminous leaves, - ~ this is planted chiefly in gardens, ‘or near dwelling-houfes. it yields a very agreeable fragrant smell, and keeps its verdure all the tithymaloides. yaks roots of this are very numerous and ftrong. the main stalk branches near the earth, into many fpiral ftrong the bark of the trunk, near the roots, is f{mooth and whitith ; but -all its branches of a deep fhining green, keeping their grateful verdure undiminifhed thro’ every seafon of the year, 0 thefe are cloathed with thick fucculent green round-pointed leaves, of about four inches long, and two in breadth, having their {mooth edges a little tinged with yellow. thefe are likewife fet on the branches alternately. the flower, which is of a fine deep red, cannot be reduced to any clafs that hath hitherto been defcribed by any botanical writer, it being a triangular fharp-pointed {mall horizontal sheath ; the top of the piftil jutting out, making the extremity of the longelt angle: this, on the in- fide of the flower, is covered with a yellow farinaceous duit. from the fame narrow aperture appear feveral {mall stamina, tipped with green pices. = thefe flowers are fucceeded by triangular {mall berries, of a dark red when ripe. to . each of thefe inclofes three angular seeds. the berries, branches, and leaves, are full of a thick glutinous milky uice. , the only place that i have feen this was at c/luf’s bay, in st. lucy’s parith. this very feldom grows in any other part of the ifland. 7 , | be