192 choice mannalyor, the dofe is one ortwo fpoonfils morning and evening. the virtue of agua marie. te is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obttrt= gtions thereof, ie comfortech the vital parts, and is good again{t all pallions of the heare ; it prefar= veth the meat in the flomach from putrefaétion 5 it helpeth digelti- on, and expeleth wind. ._ the dote is one fpoonful at one time. the virtuts of flowers of rofemary. ie is good againtt all infirmities of the flomach, and to fuppre(s all offenfive fumes rifiog up from thence to the head, keeping them down, and helpeth memory , ie opencth all toppings of the liver and milk, it preventeth vertigo, scatomia, 'palfies, apoplexies, gi. aeafes of that kind arifing from cold humours, it breaketh ‘wind, and eafeth the cholick. the dofeis r fpoonfil at + time. the i rare secrets in phyfick. 193 virtues of spirit of mint. feet te tench: aod fuengghens the retenive faculy, ood sean vomiting, and all pat fons of the heart, ie comfortech the vital fpiritsand is good againft the ‘conluinption y_f€ expellech wind, and helpeth digeftion, and jean infallible help for all melan- onthe daft i fiom one to two is on foon of aqua theriacali. + itis good againtt all difeates of the spleen whatlocver 5 te pre-, yenteth and helpeth contagions , ind fixlden oppredlions and qualms f the heart. or theat is one oon to pee vent and 3 (0 the ted) who yistht co fweat after taking it. ood inter of spirits of safone ie is good to comfort the vital spirits, ‘palfions, trembling, and peafivenels of the heart y and helpeth all malignity 0} prefling