book i chap. vift. 109 their intereft, fucceeded fo well, as to obtain the order of his ma- jefty in council before-mentioned; in confequence of which, feve- ral actions, that had been inflituted, were nopped by self profequl ;, andthe complainants obliged to fit down unredrefied; but with. this further agravation of hardthip, that they had bcen entrapped, by the terms ofthe praclamation, to expend from two to three huns dred. pounds cach, in the vain hope of bringing the offenders to: juftice. the proclamation had reftricted the delinquents to fuch. fees alone, “as had been eftablifthed on proper authority.” but they had no authority whatever, except their own will and plea- fure, for cfltablifbing their exorbitancies; thefe were even founded neither on ufage nor prefcription; for ihave fhewn, that they had not exifted above twenty-one years, they had originally arifen by trifling deviations from the act of 17113 10 fmall at firft, per- haps, as not to deferve oppofition; ‘or fo. modeftly demanded, as not to provoke it: at length, they grew to furpafs all limits, and were neither required, nor paid, without frequent altercation and. difpute. hadthis then any colour init of legal ufage? the only proper authority, om which their juft fees could be eftablithed, was: jome known law: the lawof 1711, which revulated and declared. their fees, was this. proper authority; there exifted no other law for the purpofe. with refpect then to jamaica, it follows, that,. by the very terms of the proclamation, they were ticd down to de- mand and take no ether fees than what that law allowed them. is it not ftrange, therefore, that, in lefs chan a twelvemonth following this pofitive injunction, the opinion and judgement of things thould, upon an intercfted mifreprefentation, be to totally changed and per- verted, us to fufpend the effects of the proclamation; to concur with the partics in deeming the law obfolcte; and, further, even to ratify fuch cxactions, intemperate as they were beyond all bounds. moving from their offices, and direcling the attorney-vencral to profeeute, ali firch offices, or “.thetr deputies, as jhould take or receive other than their legal fees.” in july, 1765, lis ex- cellency informed the attorney-general, “ that he mult not proceed to trial of the informutions “‘againgt the public officers, as a copy of the report of the lords of trade and plantuions, to the “ jords committee of the privy-council, was come to his hands; aad rhat he daily expected, in con- 6 tt quence shergot, an order from the king in council to himfelf to puta flop to the profecutions,” not iong after this, the attorney- general receive) an oilicial jetrer from his excellency, com-~ manding him © to enter wel: ‘proleyni on all the informations; his majefty’s order incouncil for “chat purpofe bctay then arrived.” of 4