168 paflry-cook, put it into your mixcure boyling it you can, not leavingany thing at all in the bottomic ofthe porrenger. mix well together all thefe ingre~ dientsy wodll finch timeas this faid mould ar pafte be wel nigh become cold, after which let it cool for the space of one half hour longersand (0 iecie grow to aftifnesle; and in the tmcan while you may prepare the following leaven, which you matt beginto makeone quarter ofanhour after you fhail have fitted your pafte. now to. make this aid leaver, you mut place a quarcer ofa round of flower upon your dreffer board, and makea trench in it, and put ii: toit half a quarter of a pince of ‘ood thick ieaveny adde a liede ilk or cream unto ity lec it bee hot, that fo you may reduce your faid ingredients into a fote ge givi palte, which you may doin ing of it well upon your crefler board; and having thronghly kneax ded yourfaid pafte, you may make cup into the thape of a loaf and dec cary english books onine, copyright © 2019 proowest ac see eae doced by coucteny ot british, paftry-cook. 169 lec it fo eft for a quarter of an hout; or thereabouts, or untill fuch time asthe leaven bee wellifen, which ag aforelaid you may knowswhen your patte beginnes to crack or (pit, and. ‘oumult remember, to keep ‘your cayen in an indiffetent warms place, . | as foon as your {aid leavenbe- agitinesto bee fplit.or to crack at top, youmuftmingle it with the'afore= {aid pafte; and working. them ver well ogether, you may, after miake one mould ofall the faid palte and leaven’ together, and mal kind of aloaf of ity. place it upona. sheet of paper, and frame it ince ‘the thape of acakes and giveit aboue a thumbredehs chicknelsafter which vatnith ity and let it lye by, a good. hour infummer, and qwo bouts in winter, anid put icintoa placechac is not very cold. ‘when this yout cake is thus pre pared and ready to bee putinto the ‘ovens you may raile it intoa cot= fin of pafte, and cetbeupp pace of