24 the rampant sy. a ingle perfon,fomething like a “king, - 2. noils cratt, and crew, and. power,to pals did bring, «; * protedtor; or projedlor rather, levelling 7 allo his tufts, a. whilefits proudly revelling . . the feather inhis cap, the title -king_ - hee calls, and yet.the power, {till wlurping, oe five y eass hee rul’dy not reign'd,him(eif protecting - by power and sword, -all juft mea elfe rejecting, inhis own crate-god ftill was him defeating, - hee would and would not, fo hee liv’d-by cheating.. calls three mock=parlaments, breaks up the thing othis own mvking, caufe-hee ivould bee king, a pack of knaves were fome, fome could not give up om grand laws, whiles charis his son did lives nolls fit torule, but no juft title having,- an makes him anjuft, and made him alwaies craving of all religions thar made for his fupporting, made all opinions ftirrup his.ufurping; ; a coach-box favour god him once was giving, on michaelmas day,to change his wicked living. _ ., state secretary in the coach doth fie, . pyoteétor in the’ coach. box, where’s his wit ¢ sometimes fuch frollicks mad into his brain were whymified by his {pirit, or his train, but this one act was like their agions all, one draws another, now well gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that nel/-had none, noll had fome virtues, mercy hee lackt alone; one of his three mock-parlaments was ficting whenas their head at the horfe-heels was flitting, some early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library ‘the rumpant story, ax ‘some part o'th’ army nol abroad doth fend, for gold, to hifpantols, keeps to mead : the reft,worms lembert out,and others-trembling — ‘obey, yet mot do hate his bafe diffembling. his major. generals, semi dragons fting the lands wo/s bathaws chen deferv'd the ftring. ‘for moneys fake the fews he in would bring, ‘canfe they fore him-had-murder‘d chrift their king. he then pleads-for the fews the scripture text for their converfion, though with-his own he’s vext, he doth divines call up from-feverall places, to colour that defign, his chaplains faces arenotfo braz’d as his, he turns the few, ‘he pets-the gold,and then forfakes that-crew. still mony lacks,for that his confcience bends his power and {word,and valor thereto-tends, it muft be had, if chat the godsdeny, the acheron hee'l force, and devils try, males churches ftables,a sacrilegious thing, ‘this was the reformation nol did bring, / brave man,where doth thy fpirit fadly rumble ¢ how in this world did thy afpitings tamble ~ ‘things upfide down? valour with counfel {wayd is good, grand nol makes all the world afraid. how many (cem to blefs when as they carfe¢ nof cares not, fo that hee have power and purfe. how did his parlaments and himfelf agree ? ‘how did his feveral fpeeches made to three concur? and with his recognition more, prayes, aud protefts, and fears, makes up che kcore,, ie