(824) wom primo avulfo non deficit alter aven, & fimili frondefcit virga metalle. the whole complex of ingredients is known to confit only of vuigiar aqua fortis (abftra@ted from two parts of vitrisl, and one of salt-peter) and quick-filver, and a {mall quintity of silver, far lefs than you may reap in a {mall time from thofe silver-fprigs , yet gain there is none, there being more expences blown away into {moak by continuance of firein one month, than can be recover'd from this silver-harveft in a longer time, and though this feem buta toy, yet 'tis very philofophical, much informing the under- ftanding, however it enrich not the purfe, for here we fee crude alercu- ry manifeftly turn’d into silver, notwithftanding ‘tis deny’d by fo ma- ny. so far this generous obferver for this times with the laft part of whofe relations may be compared numb. 39. p.779, 780. “tis hop'd, that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the subject, he hath here begun to difcourfe of, and others of a philofophical nature, will be further comunicated by him, an ascount of fome particulars, referring to thofe of jamaica, numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the younger, an eye- witnefs. 1 ae ate fhip'd like lizzards, being four footed they walk with their belly at diftance from the ground, like lizzards, thofe of a full growth, have teeth like a maftiff, anda mouth of 13 foot wide, they are of fo ftrong a fcent,that you may fmell them ata pretty diftance, when they lie onthe land, they may be mafter’d and kill’d by any, dex- trous and skill d inthe way of doing it, which is, that a man be arm’d with a good long tronchion, and fall upon them fide-wayess for doing it front- wayes, they are too nimble for the affailant, and may,by leaping upon him, (which they can do the leg:h of their whole body) fpoil him: bucif he fay his club on them againft their fhoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and lime them there, th: beatt being thereby rendred ur.ible to move, is eafily fubdued, 2, tortcifes, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they fhill five, their blood muft not be hotter, than the element, they live in, 3. the chrgo’s, defcribed by ligow, are not fele to have got ino th: body,tilt a week after, they will breed in great numbers, and fhat pets elves