chap. xvi. america. commander, who upon their firft arrival here committed fiuch horrid crueltics and maflacres, that (as the fore-mention’d bartholomeo de las cafas writes) five thou- fand inhabitants were in a fhort time reduc’d to lefs than three hundred, multitudes being put to death in a moft inhumane and barbarous manner, fome:roatted alive, others torn in. pieces by the spanifh dogs, befides many other ftudied ways of but chery, too dreadful to be read with patience, nor were they free from civil war amongft themfelves, which firft began in this ifland. the firft and onely attempters upon this ifland fince the spaniards made thems auemps of the englifh felves mafters thereof, have been the englifh, who in the year 1592. under the cone vnon ths fland. habe anthony shirley landed upon it, & got clear poffeffion thereof,none of the spanidrds that were then upon the placedaring to make the leaft refiftance ; but not thinking it worth the keeping, they foon deferted it, and made sail back again for england : after which they remain’d unmolefted for a long time, till in the yeat 1654. a fleet of englifh was fet out for hifpaniola by cromwell, under the command of colonel venables, with a defign for the taking of st. domingo; but meeting with ill fuccefs in the enterprize, and being forc’d to quit that ifland with lofs of men, and fruftration of their hopes, they fteer’d their courfe for jamaica, and on the tenth of may in the year abovelaid, with little oppofition poflefs'd themifelves of it. upon their approach to st. jago the inhabitants thereof deferted it, and betook them to the mountains, gaining time by a pretence of treaty, to fecure their wo» en and goods ; and oftentimes making incurfions upon the ftragling parties of the znglifh, flew and took many prifoners by furprize: but being weary of this yild and irregular kind of living, they betake themfelves at laft to the ifle of cuba, rhere many of them, the grandees-e{pecially, were permitted’ by favour to con- nue, the reft being by the vice-roy commanded back, with promife of {peedy afad confiderable supplies; by. that time this remnant of the spaniards was neat tyr’d out with hardfhip and neceffity, {ome being very much difcourag’d and driven th utter defpondence of mind, others deftroy’d out-right, part of the long promis’d aihd expected supply arrives, the greateft part being to follow foon after; but finding