i of india in generall,erc. craps, & the indian germanct. 1 pragtife of preferibed pa- tience, is yetin their n blian, var. bitth.$.cop.6. 6 arr. callech him dandans. 4b,7, they hold the worldco be created, corruptible, round, ryled by che high god, wy, terthey imagine to haue bene the beginning of making the world; and thar bef the foure elements, there is a fifth naturt, whereof the heauen anid starres cong, they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments int hell, and many fuch like matters. : the © germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored among them: efpecial'y fach of them as liucin the woods, and of the woods, both forther diet of a or wilde fruits, and their habir of che barkes of trees, nor acquainted wih bacchus or venus any more then with (eres. they {peake not tothe kings, aske counfeil of them,but by meffengets ; ad doe pacific the angtie gods,as is fappo. fed, by theirholineffe. next in honor to thefe, are certaine a¢emdi¢ants, which live of rice and which any man at thefirft asking givech them, togetlier with entertaintnent into they houfes, thefe profeffe skill in phyficke,and to remedie difeafes, wounds,and very conftantin labourand hardfhip. orhers there are, inchantets and diuiners, ms. fiers of ceremonies about the dead ; which wander thorow townes and cities. sone there are more ciuill and fecylar, in their life profeffing like pietieand holinéffe, wo. énen alfoare admitted vnto the fellowthip of their ftudies in this philofophie, not» their beds, ariftobulns writeth, that he (aw two of thefe brachnsames, the oneanold man fhauen, the other yong with long haire, which fometimes teforted to the markey place, and werehonored a8counfellors, and freely tooke what they pleafed, of wy thing thereto be fold, for their fuftenance. they were annointed with sefamin wherewith, and with hony, they rempered their bread. they were admittedto anders table, where they gave leffons of patience |: and after going to a placenetfe off, the old man lying downé with his face vpward, fuftained the sunne and thowes terrible violence. the yonger ftanding on one foor, held in both his hands a peeced twoodof three cubitslitted vp, and fhifted feere, asthe other was wearie: and continued every day. theyong man returned home afterward, but the old man fel lowed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as hewas by (ome reproued, he anfwered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercife, whic he had vowed. omefieritus faith,that alexander, hearing of fome religious obferuma, which weritnaked,and exércifed themfelues to much hardfhip,and would ® not cone fe to others, but would bid men, ifthey would haue any thing with them, to comew them ; fent him ynto them, who found fifteene of them twentie furlongs fromtheg- tie, each of them ebferuing his owne gefture of fitting, ftanding, crlyingnaked, and nog ftirring till sun-ferting, in chat vnfupportable heate, at which time they returned into the citic. calamus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into pre fia, where beginning to be ficke, he caufed a great pile or frame of wood to bemade, wherein he placed himfelfe in a golden chaire,and caufed fire to be pus to,in whichhe was voluntarily confumed, telling (if they tell true) thathe would meet alexandra babylon, the piace fatallto alexanders death, ealianus faith, thar this wasdowe ina fuburb of babylon, and thatthe fire was of cedar, cyprefle, mirtle, laurell, ad other {weet woods : and after he had performed his daily exercife of running, hep ced himfelfe in the middeft, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne fhining oa him, which he worfhipped. this adoration was the figne which he gaue to the mi cedonians to kindle the fire, im which he abode without any ftirring till he wasdetd; alexander bimfelfe admiring, and preferring this vidtory of calanns before alls owne, this calanus told onefieritus of a qolles ‘world, where meale was 25 ;/ét- full as duft,and fountaines ftreamed milke, hony, wine and oyle, which countiey, by men turned into wantonneffe,/upiter altered and detained, impofing a life of hai and labour, which while men followed, they enioyed abundance; bur now that met a to furfet and gtow difobedient, there is danger of yniuerfall deftruction. when he had thus fpoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, trip himfelfe, and lyeo* ked vpon thefe tones, but mandamis, © another of them, reproued calanusforhis harfhnes, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, faid that they inured their bodies to labour forthe confirmation of their minds againft paffions. “= se