this medicine, price four shilings the bottle, - . palvis antifebriticu nofter : ron our general febvifuge, : e irable pouder againft fevers 0 * niles a few dofes therof (with the medicines) takes ofthe fever be- ed eapstlaton 2. re fomething sudorifick, ut for the moft part works downwards firft,and af terwards provokes sweat ; it isa prevalent remedy againft putrid fevers, meafles, small-pox, ca- lenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous difea- so i i green-fickne/s, drop- fes. : 3. it is good againft the gr z ; lly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profita~ iin taut toes ys it refitts putrifaction, fottifies the stomach corre€ts crudities,purifiesthe * blood, cleanfes the bowels of filth and vifcous hu- tle purging way. a mm "hie sof ana inasner of ufing it. 1 et the patient drink plentifully of our 4g. ° ‘vita mag. according to the direftions in itplice. sive a bote of pour inthe morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as yeu ee occafion, more or lefs ; you may give it in orm . a bolus ina little marmalade of quinces, or pul p a i: pruens, jelly of harts-horn ; or it may be exhibite ~ ina glafsotcanary,or a fpoonful of syr, of sa ron, } or clove gillyflowers, i t llc early english books online, copyright © 2019 proques images reproduced by courtesy of british library » wil. - qua tt oe. . vil. aqua ruba mineralis, s an excellent medicine of a prefervative nature, of great benefit in the plague, and other con. tagious diflempers; particularly againit the burn- ing thirft in fevers : good againft coughs, short. nefs of breath, piyfick, the difeates of throat and mouth ; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thruth in * children, quinfies, and fuch “fe inflammations; as alfo for an unfavory breath, ps "ufe and dofe, , for thruthes or fore moarhs in fucking children, or any foulnefs of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into little white-wine, or plantain-water, {weetned with a little honey of rofes, and fo drink it, and wath their mozthes and dulcified with syrup of malberries, or honey of rofes ; often taking from 6 drops to 40, or 50,in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirft in fevers, give from 6 drops to 49 or 50, or half a spoonful in fo much beer, or ale, that it may taft fharpith of the medicine; ifthe given as often as the party defiresto drink, obfer- ving in fuuch cafes to take often to procure sweat, of my elix, magnum cordisls, and at night to rake 3 a