196: buforbinw mutt do. ghee corkins will not: opium mutt do what let tice poffce will nots but fitt it mutt, bemixed'up intoa ridiewlous lauda. nm 5 colocyntide de: sc. mt effect what manna, sene & rhubarb will not : © brave dodtors ! be bite haltbore dig! yet. you ate ‘the men: thas: cry: out ‘againft fog sma scl bh se. js colocyutiae pistonean ste tape: ums, bryony, afarnm,:aavon, hethee re, and tach mike, a8 gambogia, dey: were not abfolwte:poyforis: o:but thaarerempered by the artof the: skilful r. good words cdft nomoney, i withit prove fo: but t pray mr. doéor iftit be fo; what: means the bleating of the theep ¢ i mean, whatis the reafon your medi caments retain their vomiting qué ty with convalfions ‘of the k which have hellebore: mixed) .and their-purging quality with pripngr ’ . a es reproduced by courtesy of british library nasures explicainn, x. and helmont's vindication, and fuch fymptames that have scam- mony-mived ! thus you ute to cor» redt-pay ons, thus you intend to cure difeales.:eatinervans cnafiifirians | ~ butas a jogler.whea his feats ate. difeovesed; foyou by thisticans be- comib:tidiculous éiyou know the fer, rious cheek. the. ob in uate ree woul a _ svivads rho asiyou do, tendtotbe a dottor, cur sibi ipft le brativida nov turas 2 conglts,-colds, murres, hoarfe- neffes) hoad-aches, tooth-aches,and. the ‘ike s nay: bft-times: the fimple tech and-scab, doth reproach you. atshome, and outdare you .abroad, and what is your excule? they are ech that if oth ‘by-which itappea t if other ailedas thould ‘recome as common as kthefe, they would all be too mean. for the dottors reverence ,and good reafbrs, bedaufe they are above his ‘though you:name mountebanks early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc 137