suburbs without the wals, 499 | suburbs without the wals. in this plot of ground, there was (in that yeere ) more than 50000. perfons buried , as ihave read in the charters of edsardthe third. alfo l have feene and read an in- fcription fixed ona ftone croffe,fome- time ftanding in the fame church-yard and having thefe words ¢ | anno domini, 1349. regnante magna | pefilensia, confecratnm uit boc camite-| rium,in quo infra fipta prafenis mo- | assterii, fepulta fuerunt mortuoram cor-| | pora, plufyuam quinguaginta millia , pra-| ter alia mulsa abbine ufyue ad prafens, quorum animabus propititenr deus, a- | men, in confideration of the number of chriftian people here buried, the {aid | sir walter adanny caufed firt a chap- | pell tobe builded,where (for the {pace | of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and itis tobe noted, that above 100000. bodies of chriftian people had in that church-yardbeene buried, forthe faidknight had purchafed that place for the buriallof pore people, travailers , and other that were difca- fed, toremainefor ever 5 whercupon, an order was taken, for the avoyding | of contentionberweene the parfons of churchesand that houfe, to wit,thar the bodies fhould bee had unto the ‘church where they were parithioners, ordyed, and afterthefunerall fervice | done , had to the place where they fhouldbe buried, and the yeere 1371. hecaufed there to bee founded an houfe of carthufian monkes, which he willed to be called the salutation, andthat one of the monkes fhould be called prior, and he | gave them the fayd place of 13. acres and arodof land, with the chappel, and houfes there builded for their ha- biration, healfo gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals onthe north part , betwixt the lands of the abbotof weffminfer , and the lands of the prior of saint zohn which three acres being purchafed, inclofed, and dedicated by rulph stratford , bi- thop of londen, as isaforefhewed , re- mainedtill our time, by the name of pardon church-sard,& ferved for bury- who were fetched thither ufually ih a clofe cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white croffe thwarting , and. at the fore-end as, zobas crofle withoutsand within a bell ringing by thaking of the cart; wherby the fame might beheard when it paffed, 8 this was called the fryery care, which belonged to s, zohns, and had the priviledge of sanduary. in this charser-honft werethe mone ments of the aid sir walser manny atid margaret hiswife, marmaduke luriley, laurence bromley, knight, sit edward hederfee , knight, sit william atanay, knight,dame /ehan borough,tobn dore, want water knight, robert olney, ef quire, katharine, daughter six wiliam babington, knight, blanch, daughter to hugh waterton, katharine, wife to rohn at poot, daughter and heire to richard lacie, william rawlin, sit tobn leno thaine , and dame amargareshis wife, daughter to zohn fray, ohn peake ef. quire william baron, and william baron, efquires, sir thomas thawitesknight, philip aforgan,bifhop of ely, 1434, lathe cloyftric , bartholomew rede, knight,maior of london, buried 15054 sir ohn popham, ce. this monaftery,at the fuppreffion in the 29, of henry the 8, was valued at 642.0’. 4.0, halfe penny yeerely, here now i find fit time,tocommend | toall fucceeding pofterity,the duely de. ferved praifes ot that truely worthy (8c | sxébcnee never to be forgotten) gentleman, ma- fter thomas sutton, the right phenix of charity in ourtimes, ‘this late diffol- ved charter-boufe, by welt smishfield, belonging thentothe right honorable thomas earle of suffolke after lord treafurer of england, is fufficiently knowne to beca very large and goodly manfion,beautified with fpacious gar. dens , walkes , orchards and other pleafures, enriched with divers depen- dencics of lands and tenements ther- to belonging , and very aptly feared forwholefome ayre, and many other commodities, all which commodiouf- neffe of ficuation,and largeneffe of cir- cuit,gave occafion to this well-minded ing of fuch as defperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, early english books online, copyright © p u | fmaes s ordduced by courtesy of harvard university library gentleman mafter sutton, to affect that houfe, asthe onely place, whereon to y acm) tlasn of soo) fontand credit 2019 proquest llc build — build the foundation of his religious purpofe, for, among other his chri- ftian determinations, hee had former. ly intended to build an houte st fal. singbury bouchers in effex, tobean hof. pitall for fuch poore men and children ashehimfelfe (in his life time, or fu. ture governors for the fame tobee de- puted ) fhould thinke fic to bee lodged and relieved there: alo, for a schoole- mafterand viher, to teach children | toreadeand write , and intru@ then in the latine and grecke grammar: with a learned divine likewile to preach the word of god to them all, and a mafter befide, to governe all thofe people belonging to that honfe. tothis bleffed end and had procured (by earneft fit’) power by an aa of parliament, to build fuch an hofpitall inthe towne of halting. bury bouchers, and that the fame thouid benamed, the hopizall of king lames, founded in heallingbury in thé coun- tie of effex , at the humble petition > and at the onely cofts and charges of thomas sutton, equire : appointing alfo fuch honourable, reverend and worthy perfons, as by the faid ag of parliament were nominated and ap- pointed, to bee the firft and inftant go. yernors of the lands, poffeffions , goods and reveneues of the aid hof- picail, bat afterward, upon more grounded deliberation , and finding this goodly houte of the. charter-boufe, tobee much moreconvenient for the purpofe, than that tobe builded at hallingbury could be: hee becamean earnett jniter to the earle of sufolke, to purchafe that houfe of him , acquainting his honor with the alteration of his minde cone ceming hallingbury, and his earneft de- fire tomakethe chereer on his hof pitall, the earle being honourably snclined to fo god'y a motion,themat- ter fuftained the. leffe debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargaine and fale was affired, the fumme disburfed for this purpofe, amounted to 13000,1' which was paid downe inhand, before the enfealing of the conveyance, then he became fuiter: againe to his uurpole, hee | charter-boug: , which he had formerly intended at aullingbury + whereto the king readily yeelded, being gracioufly affected to fo charitable a worke, and sranted his letters parents to the fame \effeét. and the right reverend father lurie, thomas lord ellefnere, lord | chancellor of englind 5” rober lord high treaturcr ot england; sobathe e- | lect bithop of london’, lancelot bifhop of ey 5 sir edward’ coke, knight, \ chicfe iuftice of the common pleas ; sir thomas fofler, knight; oneof his majefties tuitices of the common | pleas 5 sir heary hobard, koight and baronet, attonrney gerierall ohn o- verall ; deane ot pauls in londen fj george moiatsine deane oftreftminfler; henry thursby , elquire , one of the matters ofthe chancerie , goffey nigh- tingale, elquise ; richard sutton, et. the hofpitall of king zames,founded in the charter.hoxfe, within the county of middlefex, at the humble petition, and the onely cofts and charges of thomas sutton, efquire , were eledted, nomi- nated and ordained by the kings moft excellent majeftie in his letéers pa. tents granted , to bee the firtt gover. hors of che lands,poffeffions,reventies and goods of the fore-faid hofpitall, and continual maintenance thereof in forme following, all bis mannors and lordthips of southmrinfler norton, little hallingbary, alias hallingbaty bouchers, and buch. seanbridge, in the county of effex. all thofe his mannors and lord- colne, all thofe his mannors and lord- ties of salshorp , alias, salerep alias, haltrop , chilten and elackprove , in the lands & pafture-grounds, called blick grove, contayning by eftimation 200, acres of pafture , with the appurte- nances in bhickgrove and wrougiton , in the faid county of silts, and alfo in that his manor of 4; fenden.otheriile majeftic, to performe all that at the called the manor’ of . afiffunden , in the parithes of wroughion, zydierde quite ; joba lav gentleman 5 thomas | rowae, gentleman; and the matter of | thips of ‘baftingrborpesalias bu ftingeborpe | and-dannesby in the county of lin-| couinty of wiles, and alto all thote his |! thefitt gover | in god,geerge , atchbithop of cantur. | "2" poinced bylencers patenes, of king fines ofp foul” in the charter bog, thelands ‘made over by matter sisto fox the maine tenance ofthe aid hofpicall jor ever, in the county of efex. in the county of lacolie, intl, in the counties of came bridge, bs fox and duddlfx and