40 direétions for health, of barthes, m1 fture, and haftneth on old age and death. j yate them that vfe them : howbeit with this oe ‘aueat i commend bathes,to wit,thatno man ation is the only | © to wie, sperme or feede of gener s+ | diftempered through venery, gluttony , comiorter of nature, which wilfully fled or te fal ; f 4 | watching, fafting , or through violent exer- te armethe man meres ifheethovld cife, prefume to enter into them. seu how wineleffe batchelers, andbuf.| 48 bathing of the head wholfome? bandle des, fhould drine ayay their un- you fhall finde it wondezfull expedient, if l fe soning of venery at nights. youbath your head fouretimes in the yeare, ‘ “finley mmultrefraine from wine,andve- and that with shot lee made of athes » after ? napinations,and not vie tolyein foft which,you mutt caufe one prefently to poure tease ‘ondl > they muftaddi€them- | so of three gallons of cold fountaine water fies to vead the bile ‘and morall philofo-| vponyout head. then let your head be dryed oh thirdly, they mult exercife often theit with cold towels. which fodaine pouring b yi . tat ifnone of thefe preuaile, let downeof cold water although it doth mighti« sen fe th ‘bed of aonts caftus, in englifh ly terrific you,yet neuertheles,itis very good, them vfe the fe (hall f jeaftran ce cffect for therby the naturall heate is ftirred within patkefeed and chey ce 3 the body, baldnefleis kept backe,and the me- fo follow. mory is quickned. in like manner, wathing —_—_——— cc of hands often, doth much auaile the eye- barthes. cuars. . |fight. of 2 — | how fhall a man bathe himfelfe in winter time is 2? v [when watersbe frozen ? id ed at tht ae aly expe in winter time this kinde of artificiall ba- coin fr men fubieét to rheumes; drop thing is very expedient and wholfome: take fies and gouts. neither can leafily expreffei two pound of turpentine,foure ounces ofthe i eich good old bathesdoebringit¥ce of wormvoodand wild imallowes,one words how muc d : " early english books oniine, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library qunc