94 gods word the (afef} guide. emines bate sham out bimiit hated ithe tear fon followesh, not for iniury but for ine focencyy not for falthood but for cruch: he i ified that the workes thereof were evil. . whiatis the eaufe that crue pietie and rounded fineerity is of fo fmal account, betaufe che worldof the vnregene- rate lieth in wickednes, and faith to-car- nall sffebions bringeth little eontent+ ment? howcan it be chat oppreflours, extortionets , viurers , thefe idolatrous worldlings, cogether with thoufands of delicious prodigals , thould encettaine the gofpell : fince zacchess mutt diside his gnc s, marhew ent bid farewell tc is place of cuftomary receipt; yea the 2.cor.9.3%. people of god mutt mee this wold asif thelifeof they vied jrnot/how hard therefore will faith very dif- j¢ be for fach as truft in vncertaine ris serktons. ches, to fubie&t chemfelues to this life of sre. faith? may not gods miniftets take vp a lamencation, what happy tidiogs froin the wordof faith which we preach? how is che way ¢o cutrlafting bliffe plainly beaten forth, yec how few delightto walkeinit? how fluggith are our comt- tion profeffours, that catnot warchone ve oure? yobny.2. stoke 5.39 early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library gels word rhe fafef guide. 35 boure?and how faithléffe are-thofe backs fliding hypoctices,as ifthe vachwageabie poffeffour of ltaacn and canttswere vas faithfilt , or.nable.co recotmperice dad fully reward his faithfull people? - « thus we fee, chat freightisthe way, and final is the number that gb.it. 2a pbram is an ynruly heifer thatwill not beramed. buer have gads ssines: bens like the fhaking ofan oliue'after the vin= [> tage. wicked men are mad men ;: they willnot be ordered; they are deafe mén, they will aot heare, charme the char2 mer nener fo.wifcly. ef thacbe fiane © which is nocdoticoffaith , how woftll will ic be wich the grearott number, who ; neither know nor belceuc, being blinde and diffolure: having from their nonage old asearall to their old age wandred froms the waies ovceuicc, of god, being feuen fold more thé chil> they sre full dreniof hell chen they were in théir nid offinocs, thers wombes ? if all a@ions that want frich be fins, how many areche fiavot thofe who were tteuer enlightened with she:-kiowledge af god? my téxe hath driven tne istdfuch 2 marrow ateigtit.& fe pated mic in, ther cease get ety, either to licence the noucltics adie at ce, thenians,