but that this has been so for many years past can never be questioned or denied. for the people of new-england, and other parts of the continent, have supplied the french sugar-colonies with provisions, and necessaries of all kinds for their plantations, and have taken from them sugars, and great quantities of rum, which the french never made before (as interfering with french brandy) till they found a vent for it by this trade. and they take off likewise great quantities of the french molasses, which was useless to them before, for the same reason, that the distilling it would hinder the consumption of brandy. and such french rum and molasses is often bought by them with money received in our sugar-colonies, from their cargoes sold there. the mischief from this commerce are very many and evident, and will encrease more and more every year, if some effectual stop be not put to it. by this means the french have encreased their plantations, and made new settlements, and chiefly supply hamburg, holland, spain, the levant, and the mediterranean, with sugars, which were formerly sent thither by us. the british sugar-colonies can't find the market for their sugars abroad, which they did formerly, but chiefly depend upon our own consumption. many of the inhabitants and planters are so reduced, that they are removing to the northern colonies; which, in case of a war with france, in all probability, will occasion the entire loss of the sugar islands; there being in martinico alone upwards of nine thousand well-disciplined men. the british sugar islands are constantly drained of their current monies by the traders from the northern colonies, who carry it away to purchase sugar, rum, and molasses, from the french plantations. that by this intercourse, they have an opportunity of taking off great quantities of foreign european manufactures, and india goods, in a clandestine manner, from the french and dutch. and what is worthy of great consideration, is, that tho' the northern colonies may be gainers upon the whole by this trade; yet the french sugar do, rum and molasses being clear profit to the french; and the cattle and lumber they receive, absolutely necessary for them, and which they could not have from any other place. nor do the northern colonies take from hence more of the british manufactures than they formerly did; nor bring a profit to great britain from this trade, any ways in proportion to counterbalance the incredible damage great britain must suffer from the mischief the sugar-colonies receive by it; the ruin of which must immediately affect great britain in the highest degree. besides the great benefit the french colonies receive from this trade, which of itself alone must soon destroy the british sugar-colonies, there are other causes which will contribute to make our sugar-colonies decline, and enable the french to supply foreign markets with sugar. the french sugar-colonies receive the greatest encouragement from their mother-country, and their duties are less than ours. whereas whereas the british sugar-colonies pay in the plantations a duty of four and a half per cent. for their sugars before they can ship them to great britain, which is never drawn back on exportation, no more than the excise on rum, which disables them from supplying ireland with it: and if their sugars are carried to the northern colonies they must pay the plantation duty of eighteen pence per cent. for their muscavado sugars, and five shillings per cent. for their white sugar over and above the four and a half per cent. duty. upon the whole; if this trade to the foreign sugar colonies be not speedily and effectually prevented, the british sugar-colonies will be in danger of being ruined. the consequence of which to great britain will be, that the most sole the export of all the british manufactures now taken off by the sugar-colonies, and the whole benefit arising from the importation of their product. our navigation and seamen must necessarily fall off and diminish. the african trade, as chiefly depending on the sugar-colonies, must decay. and our sugar works, and other plantation stocks and utensils, will be of no use, and thereby so much wealth will be actually sunk and lost to this nation.