treason, and more barbarous and cruell then the massacre of france, being destroyers of their own liberties, and supplanters and overthrowers of the same religion that they themselves pretend to professe. the agreement betwixt the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about eleven of the clock on the tuesday night, a house neere unto froome gate was to be blowne up; which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onset; who against that hour were to draw downe unto the city, and prince robert with his army came sonigh as the gallows: a bell at st. johns church on a hill above the gates was to roulé, another bell at st. michaels church upon the hill above the green was to ring, to give notice to the malignants of this towne to rise in an instant; sufficient parties were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without opposition; for that purpose there were in readineſſe in the house of master george butcher of christmaffe street, a new made captaine for this deſigne, about 160 armed men, and in the house of master robert yeomans (who was one of the sheriffs of this city the last yeere, foure and twenty men ready to put themselves in armes which there they had; the one to surprise the maine guard, the other, the guard at froome-gate, and to let in these bloud sucking chavaliers; two other bells were to roulé at the same time to give notice to the malignants to rise in all parts of the city. both monday and tuesday, white peeces of inclè were given to divers, and to the better sort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their bosoms and hats for distinction, and all that had not the word charles, or those marks, were to be put to the sword, murdered and destroyed, besides divers houses in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were designed to utter ruine and destruction. the businesſe is not, as as yet fully examined, but this and much more is confessed by the principle and maine plotters of this wicked deſigne: i want time to give you a perfect relation, you shall speedily have a fuller and better account, as soone as we have a little recovered our selves out of these distractions, for the present, here is enough to ſtirre you up to joyn with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodneſſe and mercy to us, and to give god his glory and prayſe for this wonderfull and gracious deliverance, that hath preſerved ſo many thousands of us that were innocent, and ſold, and almost given up into the hands of these cruell and bloud-thirſty men. the cheſt: actors of this miſchievous deſigne were the aforeſaid robert yeomans, and george butcher, mr. john taylor, mr. coleſtone, and his brother, mr. fitzherbert, two colſons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple, and captain cole of st. augustins, who with at least one hundred more actors and accesſories, are already taken and impiſoned in the cattle, and hourly more are discovered and secured, many of them upon examination have conſeſſed the plot to be in manner as before is deſcribed; and that threeſcore families of men, women, and children were to be put to the ſword, without quarter, given in upon a note. two goods house was ſearched and therein were found many papers that did discover the whole plot, and between three and four thousand pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, besides divers inſtruments to murder and destroy with crueltie, ſuch as wee never ſaw before. a poſtſcript. prince rupert and that army marched away as ſoon as their plot was discovered,