the gentlewomans pelks of the eggs to one hels oz draught, and so many less according to the quantity of your pie : beat them very well, and take away the skin of the pelks, and when the ale boys put them in, and have them stirring continually : and when it hath soured a while, sweeten it with sugar ; and if it be too eat, cut two or three taſſes of white bread, cut them dry, and put them to the candle, but if it be too dry, put in more to stew beef. take a good rump of beef cut from the bones, dried carneps and carrets small, with spinnage and lettice, put all in a pan and let it stew four hours with so much water, and a quart of white-wine as will cover it, some pepper and salt : when it is stewed then put in a wine-glass full of good cl-der vinegar, and serve it with spits. to boyl a gammon of bacon. water your gammon of bacon twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep kettle with sweet hay, let it boyl softly six or seven hours, and then take it up with a skimmer and a plate, and take off the skin whole, then stick your gam- cabinet unlocked. gammon full of clods, and strewe on some gros pepper, then cut your skin like fippits to garnish your gammon : and when you serbe it, stick it with bay-leaves. to boyl brawn. water your brawn twenty-four hours, wash and scrape it four or five times, then take it out of the water and lay it on a clean table, and throw an handful of salt on every collar, then bind them up as fast as you can with hemp or bals, and put them in your kettle, when the water boyleth, and the scum ariseth, take it away : let it boyl so tener that you may thrust a straw through it, then let it cool till the next morning, and serve it. to make a white-pot. take the bill and lowest cream, and boyl it with good rose of sugar and cinnamon, a little rose-water : then take it from the fire and put into it clean pickt rice, but not so much as to make it thick, and let it steep therein till it be cold : then put in the pelks of six eggs and two whites, currants, putmeg and salt : then put it into the pan or pot, as thin as if it were a custard, and