away i waf with teares by night in vaine, teares, fighes by night, by day encrease this paine. mine eyes no eyes, but fountaines of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moylt my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my feares, my feares no feares, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my feares, my heart, my teares, mine eies are blinde, dride, spent, past, walked with my cries. and yet mine eies, though blind, fec ause of griefe, and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine: and yet my heart, though spent, attends relige. and yet my feares, though past, encrease my paine. and yet i liue, and liuing feele more smart, and smarting, cry in vaine, breake heavy heart. xxxii. canzonet. desires gouvernement. w here wit is over-ruld by will, and will is led by fond desire, this reason were as good be still, as speaking, kindle greater fire, for where desire doth beare the sway, the heart must rule, the head obey. what boot's the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to shape their course: when when he that steers will haue his will, and driue them where he list pe force. so reason shews the truth in vaine, where fond desire as king doth reign. xxxiii. canzonet, lones properties. t wixt heat and cold, t'wixt death and life, i freeze and burne, i liue and die: which ioynly worke in me such strife, i liue in death, in cold i fly. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. first burning heate sets all on fire, whereby i seeme in flames to fly: then cold despaire kilthot desire, that drenched deepe, in death i ly. heate driues out cold, and keepe my life, cold quencheth heare, to end of strife. the lesse i hope to haue my will, the more i feele desire encrease, and as desire encreaseth still, despaire to quench it doth not cease. so liue i as the lamp, whole light of comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. k 2 living