as the echipe cannot change his skin, nor the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not possible to gather grapes of thornes, or figges of thistles: so it is to no purpose to force any thing to strive against nature. as in tilling of the ground and husbandrie, there is first chosen a fertile foile, then a cunning sower, then good seed: even so we must compare nature to the faterth, the expert husbandman to the schoolemaster, the faculties and sciences to the pure seeds. as the fertill foile if it be never tilled doth wax barren: so that which is most noble by nature, is made most vile by negligence. as the torch turned downeward is extinguished with the selfesame wax, which was the cause of his light: so nature turned to vnkindnesse is quenched by those meanes it should bee kindled, leaving no branch of loue, where is found no roote of humanitie. newes. newes. as cookes wish for a plentiful breed of cattell, and fishers of fishes: so busie-brained innovaters doe hunt after newes, and innouation in states. *plut.* as wee set vp meate from cats and dogges: so we must take heed, what we speake before newes mongers, and in-sinuating intelligencers. *idem.* as our bodies are more in danger by the spring, & in autume, by reason of change: so all noueltie doth offend and hurt the common-wealth. as change of meate, drinke and aire doth offend, albeit it be into like, or into better: so it is better still to retaine our old princes and magistrates, then to gape for new, because all innouation is full of danger and disturbance. as *aegion* called *homer* from the dead, for some other caufe, but to know from what parentage he was descended: so many take great paines, and bestow much cost, only to heare newes, and know nouelties. *plin. lib. 30. cap. 2.* r 5. rc...