cap. 13. some were hanged, some beaded, some were burned, some drowned, some devoured of wilde beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more savage then beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoiced they suffered for conscience, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice bayted with wilde beasts, to be torn in pieces by them. (as eusebius reports) attalus escaping the beasts, was reserved to other torments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all. socrat. hist. 1.5. cap. 1. maccedonius, theodulus, and tatiannus laid upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus aretbusius was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and stung to death with wasps, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in his dioceſs, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and stung with wasps he did account farre more delirable, that he might preserve his conscience in puritie and peace, then to be eaten up of borrows, and stung with hornets, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopt up in lakes, or caves artificially made close, which lakes, or ditches were filled with a compaſſe of dormiſe, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and theodoret. 4. b. 3. cap. 16. and foot, that they could not keep off those hunger-starved creatures, which were kept without meat alſo purposely, that they might fasten upon the bodies of those godly men; which ſingring and miserable death they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the histo-rian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially ſtopt, and to be eaten up alive with thoſe vermine, their conscience being preſerved, then to yeeld up this for of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and caſt into an infernal lake of fire and brimſtone, eternally ſtopt up, there to be conſervant with filthy ſpirits, and to be eaten up with thoſe helliſh furieſ. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lactantius ſaith not only the men among the chriſtians, and thoſe of ſtronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (ſaith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could fetch ſo much as a groan from them: which the ſtouteſt theeves and malefactors among their perſecutors could not undergo, but they would roare and crie out through impatience, and diſabilitie to endure them. tem (ut de viris raceam) pueri, & mulierculæ tortores ſuor tacui vin- cum, & expromere illis geminiu nec ignis potest. laſt. 1. 5. cap. 13. but