( io ) this medicine. price four shillings the bottle. vi. pulvis antifebricus nofer: or, our general febrifuge. a n admirable powder againft fevers of all sorts: a few doses thereof (with the use of the other medicines) takes off the fever beyond expectation. 2. it is something sudorifick, but for the moft part works downwards firft, and afterwards provokes sweat; it is a prevalent remedy againft putrid fevers, meafles, small-pox, ca- lenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous difea- fes. 3. it is good againft the green-ficknefs, drop- fie, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profita- ble in hectick fevers. 4. it refifts putrifaction, fortifies the stomach, corrects crudities, purifies the blood, cleafes the bowels of filth and viscous hu- mours, by a gentle purging way. the dose and manner of using it. l et the patient drink plentifully of our aq. *vite mag.* according to the directions in its place: give a dose of powder in the morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you fee occafion, more or lefs; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glafs of canary, or a spoonful of syr. of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii. aqua ( ii ) vii. aqua ruba mineralis. i s an excellent medicine of a prefervative nature, of great benefit in the plague, and other contagious difempers; particularly againft the burning thift in fevers: good againft coughs, shortnefs of breath, *ptyfick*, the difeafes of throat and mouth; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thrush in children, quinfees, and fuch like inflammations; as alfo for an unfavory breath. it's ufe and dose. f or thrulhes or fore mouths in fuciking children, or any foulnefs of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, fweetned with a little honey of rofes, and fo drink it, and wash their mouthes with the fame; for people of ripen years, they muft gargle their mouths with it; it being compoſed to a gargarifm with white-wine, or plantain-water, and dulcified with syrup of mulberries, or honey of rofes; often taking from 6 drops to 40, or 50, in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thift in fevers, give from 6 drops to 40 or 50, or half a spoonful in fo much beer, or ale, that it may tafte fharpifh of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5 or 6 hours pace; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party defires to drink, obferving in fuch cafes to take often to procure sweat, of my *elix. magnum cordialis*, and at night to take b 3 a