suburbs without the walls. in this plot of ground, there was (in that yeere) more than 50000. persons buried, as i have read in the charters of edward the third. also i have seene and read an inscription fixed on a stone croſſe, sometime ſtanding in the ſame church-yard and having theſe words: anno domini, 1349. regnante magna pellentia, conſeratam ſuit hoc cemiterium, in quo & infra ſepta praſentis monasterii, ſepulta ſuerunt mortuorum corpora, plurimam quinguaquinta millia, preter alia multa abhinc aſque ad praſentem, quorum animabus propitietur deus, amen. in conſideration of the number of christian people here buried, the ſaid sir walter manny cauſed firſt a chappell to be buiſed, where (for the ſpace of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above 10000. bodies of christian people had in that church-yard bene buried, for the ſaid knight had purchaſed that place for the buriall of poore people, travellers, and other that were diſcaſſed, to remaine for ever; whereupon, an order was taken, for the avoyding of contentioun betweene the parſons of churches and that houſe, to wit, that the bodies ſhould be had unto the church where they were pariſhioners, or dyed, and after the funerall ſervice done, had to the place where they ſhould be buried. and the yeere 1371. he cauſed there to be founded an houſe of carthusian monkes, which he will'd to be called the salutation, and that one of the monkes ſhould be called prior, and he gave them the ſayd place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chappell and houſes there buiſed for their habitation. he alſo gave them the three acres of land, lying without the walls on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of westminster, and the lands of the prior of saint john, which three acres being purchaſed, incloſed, and dedicated by ralph stratford, biſhop of london, as is aforeshewed, remained till our time, by the name of pardon church-yard, & ſerved for burying of ſuch as deſperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, who were fetch'd thither uſually in a cloſe cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white croſſe thwarting, and at the fore-end a s. johns croſſe without, and within a bell ringing by ſhaking of the cart, whereby the ſame might be heard when it paffed, & this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to s. johns, and had the priviledge of sanctuary. in this charter-houſe were the monuments of the ſaid sir walter manny, and margaret his wife, marquiduke lumley, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward roderſet, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame iohan borough, john dore, want water, knight, robert olney, eſquire, katharine, daughter sir william babington, knight, blanche, daughter to hugh wateron, katharine, wife to john at foot, daughter and heire to richard lacie, william rawlin, sir john lenthorne, and dame margaret his wife, daughter to john frey, john peake eſquire, william bayon, and william bayon, eſquires, sir thomas thamites knight, philip morgan, biſhop of ely, 1434. in the cloiſtric, bartholomew rede, knight, maior of london, buried 1505. sir john popham, &c. this monastery, at the ſuppreſſion in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 642. l. 4. d. half penny yeerely. here now i find fit time, to commend to all ſucceeding poſterity, the dueſſerved praiſes of that truly worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, maſter thomas sutton, the right phoenix of charity in our times. this late diſſolved charter-houſe, by wſt smithfield, belonging then to the right honorable thomas earle of suffolk, after lord treſaſter of england, is ſufficiently knowne to be a very large and goodly manſion, beautified with ſpacious gar-dens, walkes, orchards and other pleaſures, enriched with divers depen-dencies of lands and tenements ther-to belonging, and very aptly ſeared for wholesome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodious-neſſe of ſituation, and largeneſſe of cir-cuit, gave occaſion to this well-minded gentleman maſter sutton, to affect that houſe, as the only place, whereon to build bull of pope clement. charter-houſe, chappell prepared of the poore of poore, to remaine for ever. vſe for the fryery caiſt. suburbs without the walls. build the foundation of his religious purpoſe. for, among other his chriſtian determinations, he had formerly intended to build an houſe at hallingbury beachers in effex, to be an hoſpital for ſuch poore men and children as he himſelfe (in his life time, or future governors for the ſame to be deputed) ſhould thinke fit to be lodged and relieved there: alſo, for a schoolemaſter and vſher, to teach children to reade and write, and inſtruct them in the latine and greckie grammar: with a learned divine likewiſe to preach the word of god to them all, and a maſter beſide, to governe all thoſe people belonging to that houſe. to this bleſſed end and purpoſe, hee had procured (by earneſt ſuit) power by an act of parliament, to build ſuch an hoſpital in the towne of hallingbury beachers, and that the ſame ſhould be named, the hoſpital of king iames, founded in hallingbury in the county of effex, at the humble petition, and at the onely coſts and charges of thomas sutton, eſquire: appointing alſo ſuch honourable, reverend and worthy perſons, as by the ſaid act of parliament were nominated and appointed, to be the firſt and inſtant governors of the lands, poſſeſſions, goods and revenues of the ſaid hoſpital. but afterwarde, upon more grounded deliberation, and finding this goodly houſe of the charter-houſe, to be much more convenient for the purpoſe, than that to be buiſed at hallingbury could be: hee became an earneſt ſuiter to the earle of suffolk, to purchaſe that houſe of him, acquainting his honor with the alteration of his minde concerning hallingbury, and his earneſt deſire to make the charter-houſe his hoſpital. the earle being honourably enclined to ſo goodly a motion, the matter ſuſtained the leſſe debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargain and ſale was aſſured. the ſumme diſburſed for this purpoſe, amounted to 13000. l. which was paid downe in hand, before the enſealing of the conveyance. then he became ſuiter againe to his maſtiffe, to performe all that at the charter-houſe, which he had formerly intended at hallingbury: whereto the king readily yeelded, being graciously affected to ſo charitable a work, and granted his letters patents to the ſame effect. and the right reverend father in god, george, archbiſhop of canterbury, thomas lord ellesmere, lord chancellor of england; robert lord high treſaſter of england; john the eſlect biſhop of london; lancelot biſhop of ely; sir edward coke, knight, chiet juſtice of the common pleas; sir thomas fether, knight, one of his maſtiffe's juſtices of the common pleas; sir henry hobard, knight and baronet, attourny general; john overall, deane of paul in london; george mozattaine, deane of ſreſminſter; henry thursley, eſquire, one of the maſters of the chancery; geſſey nigh-tingale, eſquire; richard sutton, eſquire; john lam gentleman; thomas browne, gentleman; and the maſter of the hoſpital of king iames, founded in the charter-houſe, within the county of middleſex, at the humble petition, and the onely coſts and charges of thomas sutton, eſquire, were elected, nominated and ordained by the kings moſt excellent maſtiffe in his letters patents granted, to be the firſt governors of the lands, poſſeſſions, revenues and goods of the fore-ſaid hoſpital, and continuall maintenance thereof in forme following. all thoſe his mannors and lordſhips of southminſter, norton, little hallingbury, alias hallingbury beachers, and much-stanbridge, in the county of effex. all thoſe his mannors and lordſhips of eaſtinghorpe, alias buſtinghorpe and dannesby in the county of lincoln. all thoſe his mannors and lordſhips of salſhorp, alias salſorp, alias halsorp, chilton and blackgrove, in the county of wilts. and alſo all thoſe his lands & paſture-grounds, called blackgrove, containing by eſtimacion 200. acres of paſture, with the appurtenances in blackgrove and wroughton, in the ſaid county of wilts. and alſo in that his mannor of miſſenden, otherwiſe called the mannor of miſſenden, in the parifhes of wroughton, lydierde and the firſt governors appointed by letters patents of king iames his hoſpital, founded in the charter-houſe. the lands made over by maſter sutton for the maintenance of the ſaid hoſpital for ever, in the county of effex. in the county of lincoln. in the county of wilts. lands & paſture grounds in wilts. in the counties of cam-bridge, eſsex and middleſex. the wor-ſhire reference of mr. tho-mas sutton. i have truly ſet downe all this, as it was deli-vered me in writing by a gen-erall of good worth and credit.