sture, and halftneth on old age and death. sperme or seede of generation is the onely comiorter of nature, which wilfully shed or lost, harmeth a man more, then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how winelesse batchelers, and husbandlesse maides, should drive away their uncleane dreaming of venery at nights. first, they must refraine from wine, and venereous imaginations, and not vse to ly in soft down beds. secondly, they must addit them selves to read the bible and morall philosophy. thirdly, they must exercise often their bodies. lastly, if none of these preuaile, let them vse the seed of *agnus castus*, in english parke seed, and they shall feele a strange effect to follow. ### of bathes. chap. 5. what is the use of bathes? cold and naturall bathes are greatly expedient for men subiect to rheumes, dropfies and gouts. neither can i easilly expresse in words how much good cold bathes doe bring into them that vse them: howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man distempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fasting, or through violent exercise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholesome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lee made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to pour two or three gallons of cold fountaine water upon your head. then let your head be dried with cold towels. which sodaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mightily terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the memory is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much availe the eye-sight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall bathing is very expedient and wholesome: take two pound of turpentine, four ounces of the iuyce of wormwood and wild mallows, one f 4 ounce