34 gods word the safest guide. john.7.7. cannot base them, but him is hated: the reason followeth, not for injury but for innocence, not for falsehood but for truth: he testified that the works thereof were euill. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so small account, but because the world of the vnregnereate lieth in wickednes, and faith to carnall affections bringeth little contentment? how can it be that oppressours, extortioners, vſurers, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertaine the gospel? since zacharia must divide his goods, mathew must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vſe this world as if they vſed it not? how hard therefore will it be for such as trust in vncertaine riches, to subiect themselves to this life of faith? may not gods ministers take vp a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to euertlasting blisse plainly beaten forth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how sluggish are our common professeurs, that cannot watch one houre? 2.cor.3.31. the life of faith very difficult to nature. gods word the safest guide. 35 houre and how faithlesse are those backsliding hypocrites, as if the vnchangeable possessours of heaven and earth were vnsatisfiefull, or vnable to recompence and fully reward his faithful people? thus we see, that streight is the way, and small is the number that goeth it. a phraim is an vntrue heifer that will not be ramed. ever haue gods saints beene like the shaking of an olue after the vintage. wicked men are mad men: they will not be ordered; they are deafe men, they will not heare, charme the charmer never so wisely. if that be finne which is not done of faith, how woſfull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor beleue, being blinde and disolute: having from their nonage to their old age wandered from the waies of god, being seuen fold more the children of hell then they were in their mothers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were never enlightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driuen me into such a narrow streight, & so passed me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the poulerties of the athenians, old naturall men are very miserable, for they are full of finnes,