the art of making sugar. 30 texture, a shining snowy whiteness, and so transparent that common print may be read through the thickest part of a large loaf. t gar may be scented with different flowers, by strewing the this sort of su flowers on the moist cloths, and renewing them as often as the cloths are and twice a day besides: the water, filtering through the cloth carries chan down with it those parties of the flowers in which their fragrance resides, and leaves them in the sugar. labar relates, that twelve hundred pounds of refused sugar yield only five hundred and forty-six of sugar royal. the french prepare, in imitation of the royal, a sort of sugar which t call sucre tappe. this is no other than the common played sugar rasped they very fine before drying, and rammed into small moulds which have been pre- viously moistened witn water. this sort of sugar looks very beautiful: but as its parties have no natural union, they separate upon the least moisture, and run into melasses. 3. of sugar-candy. sugar-candy is made from the muscavado or played sugar, by dissolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification setting them to cry¬ stalize or shoot in a hot room. the months are furnished with a number of small stocks laid across for the sugar to shoot upon: their lower apperture is almost closed, so as to suffer the part which remains liquid to filter through very slowly. when the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it is carried with all possible expedition into an hot stove, immediately poured into the months, and the stove kept strongly heated. the sugar concretes upon the stick into crystalline masses, of a white or brown colour, according as the sugar was pure or impure. appendix. the art of fermenting and distilling melasses, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit. 1. of the fermentation of the cane juice in general. all kinds of sweet vege table juices are capable of being converted, by means of flew fermentation, into vinous liquors, which may either be preserved in that form, or made to field by distillation an inflammable spirit; by a hasty fermen- tation, or a slow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars. the native juice of the sugar cane, as it is eminently sweet, is likewise in a particular manner to ferment; but without a great deal of address runs, beyond the process disposed of vinous fermentation, into an acetous state. after it has underground a degree of ire, it becomes less susceptible of these changes; and does not ferment readily without the assistance of such matters as promote this operation: such is the flower or head which arises upon liquors during fermentation, &c. here