treason, and more barbarous and cruell then the massacre of france, being destroyers of their own liberties, and sup- planters and overthrowers of the same religion that they themselves pretend to professe. the agreement betwixt the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about eleven of the clock on the tuesday night, a house neere unto froome. gate was to be blowne up; which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onset; who against that hour were to draw downe unto the city, and prince robert with his army came so nigh as the gallows: a bell at st. johns church on a hill above the gates was to toule, another bell at st. michaels church upon the hill above the green was to ring, to give notice to the malig- nants of this towne to rise in an instant; sufficient partie were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without opposion; for that purpose there were in readinesse in the house of master george burcher of christmasse street, a new made captaine for this designe, about 160 armed men, and in the house of master robert yeomans (who was one of the sheriffes of this city the last yeere, foure and twenty men ready to put as yet fully examined, but this and much more is confessed by the principle and maine plotters of this wicked designe: i want time to give you a perfect relation, you shall speedi- ly have a fuller and better account, as soone as we have a little recovered our selves out of these distractions; for the d e present, here is enough to stirre you up to joyn with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodnesse and mercy to us, and to give god his glory and prayse for this wonder- full and gracious deliverance, that hath preserved so many thousands of us that were innocent, and sold, and almost given up into the hands of these cruell and bloud thirty men. the cheife actors of this mischievous designe were the aforesaid robert teomans, and george butcher, mr. iohn taylor, mr. colestone, and his brother mr. fitzherbert, two colsons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple, themselves in armes which there they had; the one to sup prise the maine guard, the other, the guard at froome- gate, and to let in these bloud sucking chavaliers; two other bells were to toule at the same time to give notice to the malignants to rise in all parts of the city. both monday and tuesday, white peeces of incle were given to divers, and to the better sort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their bosoms and hats for distinction, and all that had not the word charles, or those marks, were to be put to the sword, murthered and destroyed, besides divers houses in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were designed to utter ruine and destruction. the businesse is not, a — oglis onli e, co right and captain cole of st. augustus, who with at least one hundred more actors and accessories, are already taken and imptisoned in the castle, and hourely more are disco- vered and secured, many of them upon examination have confessed the plot to be in manner as before is described; and that threescore families of men, women, and children were to be put to the sword, without quarter, given in upon a note. twogoods house was searched and therein were found many papers that did discover the whole plot, and between three and four thousand pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, besides divers instru¬ ments to murther and destroy with cruelty, such as wee never saw before. . a postscript. prince rupert and that army marched away as soone as their plot was discovered, 11:1 43 the