(3) our own people in england, and pay three times the price for it; they 1. to accept the bills absolutely. or, make the return of all their industry and labour to us; this is the 2. conditionally. center of their wealth, the place where they lay it up, and where their osterity spend it; therefore to burthen them, is to ruin the if he accepted the bills absolutely, he would then sell the goods most profitable and most industrious part of our own body. at the market-price, let it be what it would, to enable him to comply with the payment; and if the produce did not make it but 'tis objected, that though this be true, it does not appear that good, the planter remain'd debtor to the ballance, so the loss laying a duty on their goods here can be a burthen or ruin to return'd upon him. their i rade, it being raisd here not there, and paid by the im¬ if he accepted the bills conditionally, that is, to pay when the porter, and to him again by the retailer, and at last by the con- goods are sold: if the goods did not sell in time, the bills went sumer, in the prices of the goods; all taxes in general being sup- back protested, or else were noted, and lay here at interest and pised to be paid by the last buyer. charges. by both which the planter was a considerable loser both in money and reputation. this were a good argument, if sad experience had not made it the buyers here knowing too well these methods of their trade, appear to be a mistake; and to convince those who are of another and that of necessicy the factor must sell for the reasons aforesaid, opinion, 'twill be necessary a little to examine the history of the refused to advance in price notwithstanding the duty, and with- trade, and of the last duty imposed upon it. held buying by a general consent, and the consequence soon an- our sugar trade, in general, is but a young manufacture, and swer'd their expectation, for the factors were forced to sell at the dates its original within the memory of some persons now living, old price to support the credit both of themselves and their prin- and is, perhaps, the greatest improvis'd trade, and the most profi- cipals. table to roland, that is, or ever was in the world. the first but some of the most considerable factors being willing to try cause of its rise was from the indiscretion of the portuguese, who all possible ways for their employers, shipp'd off great quanti- presuming upon their being masters of the sugar- trade in the ties for holland, hambourgh, and other parts, but those markets brasills, laid a heavy tax on their own sugar, which encourag'd being not able to take off the quantities, and the bills still following out island of barbadoes, to whom first the way of making of sugar the goods, to enable the exporter to pay the planters bills, as was discover'd, to run into the trade; and it has been in vain that above, the very same thing follow'd abroad, the goods were the portuguese saw their error, and have since endeavour'd to re¬ forced to be sold to raise the money, and the loss fell still upon trieve it. this is so direct an example, 'tis needless to argue it. the poor planter. and whoever knows the sugar- trade, cannot be ignorant, that it thus, whoever pays the money, the planter bears the loss, and is not impossible to be lost by the same error by which it was is left in debt, and consequently undone; for 'tis quite another gain'd. thing to be in debt in the west-indies than tis in england. in the reign of the late king james an additional duty was that the planter is not able to bear the duty, at least, at this laid upon sugar, notwithstanding all the remonstrances of the time, is the next thing to be proved, and that is as plain as the traders and planters to the contrary; and yet even then nothing other. the war which has lasted now nine years, has been a but the pretence that the duty wou'd not affect the planters but lye general prejudice to all trade, but to the west-india trade in on the consumer, with a promise of his majesty to remit it if it particular: and in the west indies, the islands of barbadoes and prov'd otherwise, could make it seem tolerable. jamaica have been as it were destin'd to be ruin'd, having besides but when time demonstrated the sad effect it had on the planter, the war had a complication of disasters, as the dreadful earth- and they applied for relief, they were answer'd, 'twas an unman- quake, and the insurrection of the negroes at jamaica, the loss of nerly thing to put his majesty in mind of his promise. three or four entire fleets from barbadoes, by disaster of weather 'tis true, if sugar was planted and cur'd in england, the duty and hurricanes, together with a distemper brought amongst them might lye on the consumer, as in other cases it does; but here the by the men of war, little better than the plague, which sweet case differe exceedingly. away great numbers of their inhabitants, the planter is the seller at our market, the merchant here is but also they have raised forces, and fitted out ships at their own the factor; when the planter ships his sugars for england he con- charge for several expeditions; and in short, besides their losses signs them to his factor to be sold for him, and generally draws at sea by the french, with the ruin of great part of jamaica, bills upon his factor for as much as he supposes the produce to be, and st. christophers, by their descents, have raised larger taxes on and sometimes more. their estates than has been paid by us at home; by which means upon laying the duty abovementioned, the experiment was made; there is not half the sugar planted in the west-indies that was be- the factor had two ways to manage the sugars and bills, and no fore the war. more. after 1. to