197 oyls, and powders. 196 beantifying waters, do it at least six, or eight hours, then all cankers, and cure a stinking breath, with often change of cold water, take and preserve the teeth from rottenness. away the salts from the sublimate, change your water twice every day at least, and 56. to procure an excellent colour in seven or eight days it will be dulcified, and complexion in the face, used and then it is prepared; lay it on with oyl by the c. of s. of white poppy. take the juice of hyssop, and drink it 59. a beauty-water for the face, by in a morning fasting, half a dozen spoon- madam g. fuls in ale, warm, it will procure an ex- cellent colour, is good for the eye-sight, take lye that is not too strong, and put destroyeth worms, and is good for the two peels of oranges, and as much ci- stomack, liver, and lungs. tron-peel, blossoms of camomile, bay- leaves, and maiden-hair, of each a hand- 57. to keep the teeth white, and ful, of agrimony two or three ounces, kill worms. of barley-straw chopt in pieces, a hand- sul, as much fenugreek, a pint of vine- take a little salt in a morning fasting, leaves, two or three handfuls of broom- and hold it under your tongue till it be blosoms; put all these into the lye, and melted, and then rub your teeth with mingle them together, and so wash the it. head therewith, put to it a little cinamon- and myrrh, let it stand, and wash your 58. to procure beanty, an face therewith every evening: it is good excellent wash. to wash the head, and to comfort the brain and memory. take four ounces of sublimate, and one ounce of crude mercury, and beat them together exceeding well in a wooden 60. against k 3 mortar, and wooden pestle; you must de . english b. proquest llc