234 all sorts of 235 fleth souced. them with your knife, and season them up either in slices, or whole with the horns with salt, nutmeg, mace and pepper on. and having first wash'd your park on the sides of lamb souced. inside with yolks of eggs, wash the out¬ side of your veal therewith, and lay it bone your side of lamb, soak it and within your park; lastly, strow on your re- squeeze it well from the blood, wife it dry, maining seasoning, and rowl it up hard. and season the inside with beaten nut¬ binding it with tape: when it is boil'd, meg, ginger, some sweet herbs minced souce it in some of the same liquor, with a small, whole coriander-seed, minced le- little vinegar, beaten pepper and ginger; mon-pill and salt; lastly, some slices of when you serve it up, stick your park with bread lard over all: then rowl it up in bay-leaves or rosemary and flowers, gar¬ a coller, and tye it up in a clean cloth, nishing your disk with flowers and put it into your liquor when it boils, and sage. scum it very well, and then put in sliced ginger, sliced nutmeg, salt, fennel and 1 rams head souced. parsley roots, ; being almost boiled, put in cut the head off, with a good part of a quart of white wine, when it is enough the neck adjoyning to it, and boil it with take it off, and put in slices of lemon, the skin on a good while; when it is with the pill of two whole lemons; throughly boiled, (which will require a boil it close covered to make the veal considerable time) take it up and pluck of look white. the skin, then take broth you have boil- thus you may order a breast of veal, ed some fresh meat in, and boil it over a- or any joynt of mutton, kid, fawn or gain, with vinegar, salt, a good handful of venison. sweet herbs, ginger, pepper, a good piece¬ swan coller'd. of horse-raddish root scraped, and a quar- ter of a pound of french-barley; being bone your swan, and part the two sides, boiled, strain them through a bag, and season it according to the foregoing dire- souce the head in it; you may serve it ctions in the soucing of geese, season it with . — early english books online, copyright & 9 proquest llc