[ 389 lix. astronomical observations made at the island of barbados; at willoughby fort; and at the observatory on constitution hill, both adjoining to bridge town. by nevil maskelyne, a. m. fellow of tri¬ nity college, cambridge, and f. r. s. [read december 20, 1764.] n. b. all the observations of the first satellite of jupiter were made witn a two foot reflector made by mr. bird, having an aperture of 3 7 8/8 inches in diameter, except where they are marked as made with my 18 inch reflector made by mr. short, having an aperture of four inches and an half in diameter. and the eclipses of the other satellites were all observed with the 18 indi telescope, except a few marked as made with mr. bird's two foot reflector. the la¬ titude of willoughby fort is 13. 5'n. and that of the ob- servatory 13. 5. 15⁷ n. this agrees with the latitude i ob- served when our ship came to anchor at our first arrival in carlisle bay, which, carefully calculated, and reduced to st. michael's church, gives 13. 5. 30" for its latitude. the observatory is about 200 yards due east of the church, and willoughby fort is about 1600 feet distant from the same, bearing s. w. so that the observatory is about 15" of lon- gitude, or 1" of time to the east of willoughby fort. the latitudes of willoughby fort and the observatory, set down above, result from altitudes of the sun taken with a bason of quick-silver by the brass hadley's sextant made by mr. bird, being calculated from them, and the apparent time known from equal altitudes of the sun taken with the equal attitude instrument. at