to those granted to the english east-india compa- ny at first, they would have found there was no reason to charge his majesty with granting us such immense or unparallel'd privileges, or ascribing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noise of the guns at namur, as this petulant scrib- ler does. dedication, pag. 9. but if h—s and his suborners exclaim against our privileges as immense, they are resolv'd to diminish the authority by which they were grant- ed, and call it only by the name of an octroy, which significies no more than a patent; whereas our privileges were granted us by an act of par- liament, which are greater and more sacred than all the octroys in europe: thus thro ignorance or ma- lice they think fit to vilify his majesty's conduct and authority, which they pretend to defend. their malice is further demonstrated by the pa- renthesis. (to be presum'd) in the 2d page of the de- cation, where they speak of his majesty's promise to interpose his royal authority to do us right in case of disturbance, and that at the publick change (to be pre¬ sum'd) of his antient kingdom. there might possi- bly have been some need of their presumption, had all mankind been indow'd with as little sense and honesty as h—r and his suborners; for no other body could ever presume it to mean any thing else, since our acts do not oblige england: tho if they hadepresum'd that our enemies would take care thanthe said promise should not be kept, the refusal of lending our company the 3 men of war built at the charge of our own nation, would soon have convinc'd the world that they had pre- 1 sum'd too true. il. we have accounted for rejecting mr. douglas' proposal elsewhere; nor shall we take notice of h—s's scurrilous reflections on mr. paterson which early english books online, copyright & 2019 proquest llc which only discover his own temper, but do that honest man no hurt. as to his charging us with squandring away 50000 l. on 6 hulks at amsterdam and hamburgh, purely to make a noise of our proced- ings, &c. we would desire him and his suborners to reconcile it with what they say from p. 14, to 20. where they own themselves that the dutch and hamburgers were both mightily pleas'd with the design, p. 14. that the dutch were ticketled with the conceit that they should be sharers in the scots trade and p.16. they say, that that which gave the dead stroke to the scots design, was the east and west-india companies running open mouth'd to the lords of am- sterdam, shewing what was hatching by the scots com- missioners in their city to ruine the trade of the unit- ed provinces. p. 17. they tell us, that the ham- burgers thought it the more their interest to embrace the project, the more that the dutch oppos'd it: p.18. that our affair was generally favour'd by the burgers of hamburg; and p. 21. that the government of eng- land sent the senate of hamburgh a caution by sir paul ricaut to take care how they suffer'd their burghers to embark with us. so that here we condemn them from their own months: it being plain from those concessions, that we did not idly squander away our money at hamburgh and amsterdam; but that both those trading cities approv'd our design, and would have engag'd in it, had not the court of england and the dutch oppos'd it; and therefore what loss of mony we sustain'd in those places, must be charg'd to their account; so that h—s hath verification the proverb, that liars have need of good memories. this is not the only instance wherein those of —5 and his suborners have giv'n them the¬ h slip; for in the 4th page of the dedication, they upbraid e 3