(593) a a n s a . the unhappy iage. giving an account of the royal anne galley, captain villis commander, which was split to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizzard the 10th of november, 1721. having on board the lord belhaven, who was going as governor to barbadoes, with several other persons of distinction, the whole number on board being 210, out of which there were only three saved; whose names are george hain, william godfrey, and thomas laurence, a boy. to the tunne of, womens work is never done, &c. h! the sad and dismal story one gentleman was drove on shore i see the noble lord belhaven, 'bout whom they found a thousand pound, climbing to the top-mast high brought from off the lizzard rocks, whose name's supposed to be crosier, with many more of birth and breeding, the royal anne in all her glory, who likewise in the waves did die by writings in hi 2ockets found: there receiv’d a fatal shock: at length the galley split in pieces, likewise they say the lord belhaven, the winds and waves did both conspire, having on a diamond ring¬ death put an end to all their woe, for to ruin all therein: we three poor souls upon a wreck, his shirt mark'd b. the floating ocean, oh belhaven! brave belhaven! did to shore his body bring. with waves was tossed too and fro. most unhappy hast thou been. at length unto the shore was driven, oh! the grief and sad distraction, governor unto barbadoes, where the people took us in; which this accident hath brought, he was sailing bold and brave, we prais'd the lord for his great mercy, on the wives and near relations, little drawing it was his fortune, since we thus preserv'd have been, of the persons that are lost; for to have a watry grave and sav'd us in the fatal hour, some for husbands, other father, with many more brave noble persons, when the waves did us surround, brothers, kinsmen, do lament which were put in place of trust, and a many souls did perish, with aking hearts, and keeping eyes but oh! their sands were just expiring and before our eyes were drawn'd. to think how from them they are rent. their time was come and die they must. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, but now observe the dismal story, above two hundred souls were perish'd, that their wives and children bear, given by these three that's sav'd, in an instant all were lost wives a keeping for their husbands, by furious winds and waves were driven, george hain, likewise william godfrey the children for their father dear, and thomas laurence, a boy 'tis said, on the stag rocks they were cast; let each tender heart implore them, as to barbadoes we were sailing, and pity the sorrow they are in, lord belhaven, he did say, and think upon the lord belhaven, come noble boys and jovial sailors, when the galley split to pieces, how unhappy he has been. happy may our voyage be for to hear their pitious moan. noble lady in the city. but drawing near unto the lizzard, of all that were on board the vessel, ring of her husband's death, there the storm began to rise, only three could reach the shore, twould have mov'd a heart of pity, who on a wreck by the winds were carried, | nothing then but desolation, to hear the words she did express, thro' the waves and billows, road, did appear before our eyes, crying, o my tender jewel. then praise the lord for his great mercy. such a dreadful scene of sorrow, is a watry wave thy tomb you that thus have been preserv'd sure before was never seen, i'll search the deep to find my dear, oh belhaven! brave belhaven! adore and magnifie his goodness, o cruel death come seize me soon. willingly your maker serve. most unhappy hast thou been. thus she raves in sad distraction, captain willis cry'd brave sailors, caprain willis was commander, in her bed with cords she's bound, j. do your best, or die we must, at this most unhappy time, rying night and day my jewel, lord have mercy, now relieve us, savage to be attorney general e is in the ocean drawn’d: in thy providence we trust. with many more just in their prime, thus many a powerful widow save us in the time of danger, where going over for to settle, and babies fatherless are made, for death before our eyes appear, at barbadoes we do hear. consider then the many dangers, and when they found all hope were over, but by the ocean they were follow'd, which poor sailors thro’ do wade. in tears they all fell down to prayer. as they did their courses steer. many more that night did perish, then against the fatal rocks, what a scene of dismal horror, in the storm as we do hear, the royal galley split in twain, there was seen when this was o're, as in the downs the fleet was riding, two hundred souls aloud were crying, bodies floating on the ocean. some lord belhaven's fate did share; lord save us from the watry main, by the waves were drove on shore, lord keep us from all such disaster, to see each for his life a shifting, and the country people running. deliver us from sudden death, as the waves tost mountains high, striving who should get the most, and give us grace that we may serve, the galley in the deep a sinking. stripping all without distinction, the mighty god while we have breath. while dying groans did pierce the sky¬ tis the custom of the coast. e 0 e a v. e xxv a