cabinet unlocked. the gentlewomans gammon kull of cloves, and strew on pelks of two eggs kor ons mels or some gross pepper, then cut your skin draught, and so news or less according like stppits to garnish your gammon: to thy quantity of your ile, beat them and when you serve it, stick it with very well, and takouway the skin of the bap=leaves. pelks, und den ehe als bayls put them d e e to boyl brown. in, and tepatem florlog continually water your braun twenty=four and when it had not'd a while; sweeten it hours, wash and serape it four or five with hugar; and if it be to eat, cut two 1 times, then take it out of the water and az thrée tosts af a) te bread, tost them lay it on a clean table, and throw an dry. and put them to tys landle, but if it handful of salt on every collo., then di to ditak pui in nous bind them up as fast as you can with to stew beef. hemp or bass, and put them in your taks a gwo rump af bæk cut krom kettle, when the water hopleth, and the bones, shred turnops and carrets the scum aviseth, take it away. let it small, with spinnage and lettice, put boyl so tender that you may thanst a straw all in a pan and let it stew tour hours 1 through it, then let i. cool till the next with so much water, and a quart of morning, and seuer. . white=wine as will cover it, some to make a white-pot. pepper and salt, when it is stewed take the best and sweetest cream, then put in a wine-glais full of good el- and boyl it with good store of dugar and dor rinegar, and serve it with sip¬ cinnamon, a little rale=water, then . pits. take it from the fire and put into it clean to boyl a gammon of bacon. pickt rics, but not so much as to make water pour gummon of bacon . it thick, and let it stæp therein till it twenty=kour hours, then put it into a be cold, then put in the velks of six drey kettlo with swiet hay, let it boyl eggs and two white, currants, kut- softly six or so ven hours, and then take meg and salt, then put it into the pan it up with a scummer and a plate, and or pot, as thin as if it were a custard. take off the skin whole, then stick your and gam= ear books onling 0 2019