. 3 - j. 1. 2 dans le . 4 „ d e e 1. 161 1. directions for the sugar plums. whenever than a child is out of order, let it 1 e s. m immediately, and out of hand, eat one * x e only of these plums. and if but eaten 3 time s will save a deal of charges in physick, & recover vorms often keep in such more children from illnese than loads of other sugar physick. illhealth, that no- body can. tell what they ail 90 country shop keeprs through out the whole (little dreaming, it to be from kingdom, fell a deal of these gum openning worms) till they see these 8.00 1 remedies and plums which proves fo very quick a warms to come anvay alive, return that they still send to templebar for in the, close stool, by the fa- more & more of them. and what is not sold, are 2 mous purging sugar plums, retumed at any time. which are innocent, and ind any order shall be immediately delivered safe, as a cittle manna, or rhubarb, or, 2. or 3. to any carrier, stage coach, wateiman, or- stewed prunes, with sena. correspondents, you shall please to order, to any there are no worms at all., there part of the kingdom these sugar plums presently a is anclher such a thing this day in the curé an agues, and intermitting lever, the head world again, for a most delicate fine purge, where ach, cholick; gripes rhumatism thickness of a fine safe purge may be wanted -- to free the body hearing, sickness and pain at stomach dropsy, green foul humburs, and thereby cure its distempers. sickness, want of appetite, coughs, and short as is daily experienced in famillies. so that, a. breath, giving immediate ease and easy breath. few penny worths. only of these plums will fave a deal of charges in physick and. one only of these little plums (of a penny) is preserwe more lives, then half the physick in enough to bring these worms with foul & gross town, jan recover. humours away from a child of 2 or 3 years old - and half a plum for younger children, ommon, suggar plums at the confectioners, are indeed bigger than these, but for colour. two plums given to a child of 4. 5. or 6. years taste &c. these may be caten by children, old, to bring worms away, thre plums, to one like a common sugar plum. or. like any sweet meat of 8. 9, or 10. years old, for a fine safe purge. and you can give the child to please it. --or, you may manor woman, may take 4. 5. or 6. of them when they bruife and dissolve them like a bit of loaf want to be finely purged, and to have foul humours sugar, in a little tea, milk, beer, gruel, &c. out of their body. and after every working, by which and so take them, which is a very good way? you l’fee a load of foui. numours, as green as igns of works, are—a big belly, which, grass, drink a deal of warm broth, water gruel, ale these rare little sugar plums. presently, or tea, the more you drink the better they will work take down, and the children are soon quite well if not given stools enough add a plum next time pale looks, hollow eyes, stinking braath, itching the only harm of a plum more for a dose would only of the noſe, which makes children often rubbing be a stool or two the more. it, unequal sleep, with startings, and grying out. in missing a day or two between each, these loofeness, coughing, gripes & pining away. pain plums should be taken 3 times because once only and sickness at stomach. lrclining to vo nit. a great takeing does not purge out of the body all the appetite, and craveing for victuals frequently crying worms, and foul humours, and.may be taken reftleis and uneasy, & no body ean tell with or any weather heat rost. what they an or would have. or what to give crecori them for ease. ch. 0 r “ . 1 dans le 1. [unclear] <gap/> -