preservatives against the plague. 26 perficiall parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, as before is taught you, and so apply to the place some strong maturative, and atractive plaister, or cataplasme, as hereafter shall be shewed you. if the greif be in the head or throte, then apply ventoses to the neck: if it be in the emunctuaries of the heart, then apply them to the shoulders: if in the e- munctuaries of the liver, then apply them to the buttocks or thighs, now when this is done, either by phlebetomy, or ven- toses, then within an hour or two at the most after it, you must give the sick some good cordiall medicine, which hath power to comfort the heart, resist the venomous matter, and also procure sweet, whereof out of the following you may make choice as you list. an excellent good powder to expell the plague, which also pro- voketh sweat. rx. roots of gentian, bittanie, petasitis, ana, ʒ. i. roots of tormentill, dittander, ana, ʒ iii. red sanders ʒ. ß. fine pearle of both sorts, ana, ℈. i. fine bolarmoniack prepared, fine terra sigillata, ana, ʒ. vi. rindes of citrons, red corrall, roots of zedoiar, shaving of ebony, bone of a stags heart, ana, six- teen graines: fragments of the five pretious stones, ana, ℈. ß. shaving of a unicorns horn, succini, ana, ℈. ß. leaves of gold and silver, ana, one and half in number, make all these in fine powder, every one severall by himself, and then mix them all together, and give thereof ℈.i. or ℈. iiii. more or lesse as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabios, or carduus benedictus water two or three ounces, whereunto you must adde a little sirrup of lemons, or sour citrons, and give it warm, the bolarmoniack must be pounded small, then washed in scabios water, and so dryed. another good powder. rx. leaves of dittander, called dictami cretici, roots of tormentil, bittanie, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, ʒ. i. terra lemnia, alloes cicatrina, fine myrrh, rinds of sour citrons, ana, 27 preservatives against the plague. ana ʒ i. mastick, saffron, ana, half a drachm. bosarmoniack prepared as beforesaid, ʒ ii. all these must be made in fine pouder, and so mixt together, you may give two scruples, or one drachm thereof with any of the aforesaid waters. a good opiat to expell venome, and provoke sweat. conserve of the floures of burrage, bugloss, violets, bit- tanie, ana, ℥. ii. venus triacle ℥. ii. red terra sigillata, terra lemnia, mithridate, ana ℥. i. shaving of ebonie, and harts-horn, orient pearls, roots of tormentill, ana 3 i. shaving of unicorns horn, root of angelica, ana half a drachm. sirrup of the juice of small sorrell and bugloss, ana, so much as shall suffice. mix all these together in the form of an opiat, then take of the same opiat, one drachm and half. scabios water, balm water, ana ℥ ii. dissolve the opiat in the waters, and drink it warm, then walk a little upon it, and then goe to bed and sweat. another excellent good means to expell the venom, and procure sweat. take a great white onyon, and pick out the coar or mid- dle of him, then fill the hole with good venus triacle, or andromachus triacle, and aqua vitae, then stop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and rost him in the hot ashes un- till he be soft, then strein it strongly through a cloth, and give it the sick to drinke, and the rest that remains, pound it small, and apply it to the sore, and sweet upon it. now when he hath taken any of the aforesaid cordials, if he chance to vomit it up again, then wash his mouth with rosewater and vinegar, and then give him more of the same again, which must be proportioned according to the quantitie vomited, for if all were vomited, then give so much more: (if lesse) then according to the quantity vomited, and if he vomit that also, then give him more, and so continue it to h h h