the state of the island of jamaica. 41 erful prince charles, king of great britain, &c. in order to the resting and regulating the same for the fu- sir ture; to send into spain his envoy extraordinary, william godolphin, knight; with full authority and power to make any treaty convenient and proper for that end: and likewise the most serene and powerful charles, king of spain, &c. and the queen regent maria anna, &c. for the carrying on a work of so much piety and pub- lick good, deputed on their part, the earl of penaran- da, counsellor of state, and president of the indies, to confer, treat, and conclude thereupon, with the said sir william godolphin: at length they mutually resolved and agreed upon the articles of the following treaty in virtue of their several commissions. te dordus oteda ni boodtodrigiem boog droni hua b'zíors tirst, it is agreed be¬ the treaty of 1667. con¬ tween the above menti¬ oned plenipotentiaries sir wil¬ firmed. liam godolphin, and the earl of penaranda, in the names of the most serene kings respectively, their masters, that the articles of peace and alliance, made between the crowns of great britain and spain, in madrid, on the 23. of may, 1667. or any clause thereof, shall in no manner be deemed, or understood to be taken a- way, or abrogated by this present treaty; but that the same shall remain perpetually in their ancient force, stability, and vigour, so far forth as they are not contrary, or repugnant to this present convention and articles, or to any thing therein contained. 101 wbus 0010 i lla moið 13 brt. bas le ii. anoilla o llae that there be an univer- an universal peace, as sal peace, true and sincere well in america as else- 0,89 where. amity in america, as in the 1919 adi 01 other