29 or, the earl of essex. their queen, and i am weary of the load, 2 and want a friend like thee to lull my sorrows. c. ess. behold these tears sprung from fierce pain and joy, to see your wond'rous grief, your wondrous pity. o that kind heav'n wou'd but instruct my thoughts, and teach my tongue such softning, healing words, that it might charm your soul, and cure your breast for ever. queen. thou art my better angel then, and sent to give me everlasting quiet- say, is't not pity that so brave a man, 0 and one that once was reckon'd as a god, m that he should be the author of such treasons? that he, that was like caesar, and so great, has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou'd stoop to gain a petty throne from me? c. ess. i can't believe 'tis in his soul to think, much less to act a treason against you, tibus your majesty, whom i have heard him so 0 commend, that angeles words did never flow with so much eloquence, so rare, so sweet, that nothing but the subject cou'd deserve. queen. hast thou then heard him talk of me? c. ess. i have, binow and as of so much excellence, as if he meant to make a rare encomium on the world, the stars, or what is brighter, heav’n. she is, said he, the goddess of her sex, so far beyond all woman kind beside, that what in them is most ador'd, and lov'd, 2o vbo avoir their beauties, parts, and other ornaments, i are but in her the fails to greater lustre, and all perfections else, how rare soever, is soe ald are in her person but as lesser gleams, and infinite beams that usher still the sun, but scarce are visible amidst her other brightness. and then she is so good, it might be said, that whilst she lives, a goddess reigns in england. for all her laws are register'd in heaven, d e and copy'd thence by her- but then he cry'd, with a deep sigh fetch'd from his loyal heart, wellmay the world bewail that time at last, when so much goodness shall on earth be mortal, and wetched england break its stubborn heart. queen. did he say all this? vonde notro faid ni c. ess. all this! nay more, n a thousand times as much, i never saw him buts