— — ofcanzonets. booke ii. - of canzonets. bookell. 130 when he that steers will haue his will, away i wast with reares by night in vaine, and drive them where he list pe force. teares, sighes by night, by day encrease this paine. so reason shewes the truth in vaine, where fond desire as king doth raigne. mine eyes no eyes, but fourtaines of my teares, ——— my teares no teares, but floods to moyst my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my feares, xxxiii. canzonet, my feares no feares, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my feares, my heart, my teares, mine eies lones properties. are blinde, bride, spent, past, wasted with my crics. wixt heat and cold, t'wixt death and life, and yet mine eies, though blind, see cause of griefe, i freeze and burne, i live and die: and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine which ioyntly worke in me such strife, and yet my heart, though spent, attends reliefe. i live in death, in cold i fry. and yet my feares, though past, encrease my paine. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, and yet i liue, and living feele more smart, neither, and both, this life i lead. and smarting, cry in vaine, breake heauy heart. first burning heate sets all on fire, — whereby i seeme in flames to fry: xxxii. canzonet. then cold despaire kils hot desire, desires gouernment. that drenched deepe, in death i lye. heate driues out cold, and keepes my life, *here wit is ouer-ruld by will, cold quencheth heate, no end of strise¬ and will is led by fond desire, ti ere reason were as good be still, the lesse i hope to have my will, as speaking, kindle greater fire, the more i feele desire encrease, for where desire doth beare the away, and as desire encreaseth still, the heart must rule, the head obay. despaire to quench it doth not cease. so live las the lampe, whose light what bootes the running pilots skill, oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. lining to tell which way to shape their course: k 2 when 1 — a a early english books online, copyright & 2019 proquest llc