wits common part. 2. wealth. 368 part. 2. 369 as the æthiope cannot change his nenes. skin, nor the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not possible to gather grapes as cookes wish for a plantifull of thornes, or figges of thistles: so it i abreed of cattell, and fishers of is to no purpose to force any thing to fishes: so busie brained innouaters doe striue against nature. hunt after newes, and innouation in as in telling of the ground and hus- states. plut. e bandrie, there is first chosen a firtile as wee set up meate from cats and soile, then a running sower, then good dogges: so we must take heed, what we seed: euen so we must compare nature speake before newes mongers, and in- to the fat earth, the expert husbandman sinuating intelligences. idem. to the schoolemaster, the faculties and as our bodies are more indangered sciences to the pure seeds. by the spring, & in autume, by reason as the fertill soile if it be neuer tilled of change: so all noueltie doth offend doth wax barren: so that which is most and hurt the common-wealth. noble by nature, is made most vile by as change of meate, drinke and aire negligence. doth offend, albeit it be into like, as the torch turned downeward is or into better: so it is better still to re- extinguished with the selfe same waxe, taine our old princes and magistrates, which was the cause of his light: so then to gape for new, because all in- nature turned to vnkindnesse is nouation is full of danger and disturb- quenched by those meanes it should bance. bee kindled, leaving no branch of as apion called homer from the love, where is found no roote of hu- dead, for none other cause, but to know manitie. from what parentage he was descended: so many take great paines, and bestow much cost, onely to heare newes, and newes. know novelties. plin. lib. 30. cap. 2. re r 5. early english books online, copyright & 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of university of illinois library