the m rates f a son of and be trew ole from b om the g. e so sensib e interest das tot (37) that as to the virginia trade, which brings greatest advantage to his majey, the merchants of ireland are in a manner wholly cut off from that trade, except they will drive it to the utter ruin of the kingdom. (which they resolve not to do) for neither provision, nor horses will go off at virginia, nor are servants to be had to such numbers as to en- able that trade; and the export of their manufacture is prohibited. so that if they will drive that trade, they must do it with cash, and turn all the little money they have into smoak, or be at the excessive charge, double hazard and expence of time, to come unto, and return through england with that (as all other plantation commodities) which hath occasioned frequent loss of seasons, and of ships and car¬ go's to the loss of the duty to his majesty, and ruin of many merchants, as they made appear in very many deplorable instances, too long to be here inserted. they say, that whereas by an act of the 25. car. 2. for better se¬ curing the plantation trade, it is enacted, that if any ship or vessel, which by law may trade in any of the plantations, shall come to take on board any plantation commodities, and that bond shall not be first given, with sufficient surety to bring them to england, wales, or bar- wick, that there shall be paid there on white sugars 5 s. per cent. on mu$covados 8 d. per cent. on tobacco 1 d, per pound, &c. which afford¬ ed some ease to the distressed merchants of ireland in returning, with¬ out being necessitated to come to england to enter. yet that door also hath been ſhut against ireland by the artifice of the arbitrary commissioners of the customs in england. for contrary to the plain import of that law, there was a ship of england which paid that duty in the plantations, seized and condemned, under pretence that that act was only intended for the trade between plantation and plantation, although there is nothing in the act that gives countenance to that construction. that tho' the manufactures of ireland are few, and that the most con¬ siderable of them is linnen, which interferes not with the manufacture of england, and that the quantity expected in times of free trade to the plantations was but small, yet the sustenance of a good number of the most necessitious of their people depended wholly on that little, and that they cannot subsist barely by air, more than the people of eng- land. that by reason of the easiness to subsist in ireland, the restaurts on trade, the difficulty, if not impossibility (now) to grow rich by trade, and the cheapness of land; merchants are inclined to purchase rather than trade. that from hence; and the mean way of living of som the natives, paucity of inhabitants, little demand of the native com- modities in foreign markets, the want of any peculiar commodity, as