rare secret in physick. 193. 192 a choice manual, or, the virtues of spirit of mint. the dose is one or two spoonfuls it is good for the stomach, and morning and evening. strengthens the retentive faculty, the virtue of aqua mariae. good against vomiting, and all pas¬ it is good for all infirmities of sions of the heart, it comforteth the spleen and to open the obstru- the vital spirits, and is good against ctions thereof, it comforteth the the consumption, it expelleth vital parts, and is good against all wind, and helpeth digestion, and passions of the heart; it preser- is an infallible help for all melan¬ veth the meat in the stomach from choly. putrefaction; it helpeth digesti- the dose is from one to two on, and expelleth wind. spoonfuls. the dose is one spoonful at one time. the virtues of aqua theriacalis. it is good against all diseases of the virtues of flowers of rosemary. the spleen whatsoever; it pre- it is good against all infirmities venteth and helpeth contagions, of the stomach, and to suppress all and sudden oppressions and qualms offensive fumes rising up from of the heart. thence to the head, keeping them the doſe is one ſpoonful to pre- down, and helpeth memory, it vent, and 3 to the infected, who openeth all stoppings of the liver ought to sweet after taking it. and milt, it preventeth vertigo, the virtues of spirits of saffron. scotomia, palsies, apoplexies, di- it is good to comfort the vital seases of that kind arising from spirits, passions, trembling, and cold humours, it breaketh wind, pensiveness of the heart, and and easeth the cholick. helpeth all malignity oppressing the dose is i spoonsul at 1 time. it, the — 1 . early english books online, copyright & 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by coursey of university of glasgow library