book i. chap. viii. 109 their interest, succeeded so well, as to obtain the order of his ma- jesty in council before-mentioned; in consequence of which, seve- ral actions, that had been instituted, were stopped by noli prosequi; and the complainants obliged to fit down unredressed; but with this further agravation of hardship, that they had been entrapped, by the terms of the proclamation, to expend from two to three hun- dred pounds each, in the vain hope of bringing the offender to¬ justice. the proclamation had restricted the delinquents to such fees alone, "as had been established on proper authority. but they had no authority whatever, except their own will and plea- sure, for establishing their exorbitencies; these were even founded neither on usage nor prescription; for i have shewn, that they had not existed above twenty-one years. they had originally arifen by trissing deviations from the act of 1711; so small at first, per- haps, as not to deserve opposition; or so modestly demanded, as not to provoke it: at length, they grew to surpass all limits, and were neither required, nor paid, without frequent alteration and dispute. had this then any colour in it of legal usage? the only proper authority, on which their just fees could be established, was some known law: the law of 1711, which regulated and declared their fees, was this proper authority; there existed no other law for the purpose. with respect then to jamaica, it followe, that, by the very terms of the proclamation, they were tied down to de- mand and take no other fees than what that law allowed them. is it not strange, therefore, that, in less chan a twelvemonth following this positive injunction, the opinion and judgement of things should, upon an interested misrepresentation, be so totally changed and per- verted, as to suspend the effects of the proclamation; to concur¬ with the parties in deemed the law obsolete; and, further, even to ratify such exactions, intemperate as they were beyond all bounds “ moving from their offices, and directing the attorney-general to profecute, all such officers, or “ their deputies, as should take or receive other than their legal fees." in july, 1763, his ex¬ cellency informed the attorney-general, "that he must not proceed to trial of the informations "against the public officers, as a copy of the report of the lords of trade and plantation, to the “ lords committee of the privy-council, was come to his hands; and that he daily expected, in con- $equence thereof, an order from the king in council to himself, to put a stop to the propositions. not long after this, the attorney-general received an official letter from his excellency, com- manding him "to enter woli prosiqui on all the informations; his majesty's order in council for "that purpose being then arrived." of