of india in generall, &c. chap.i. 454 they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. we. ter they imagine to haue beene the beginning of making the world; and that beñdes the foure elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heauen and starres coniſt. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. k the indian the k germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored amongst germanet. them: especially ſuch of them as liue in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of thoſe wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more then with ceres. they ſpeake not to the kings, when they aske counſell of them, but by meſſengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is ſupto fed, by their holinesse. next in honor to theſe, are certaine mendicants, which liue of rice and barky which any man at the firſt asking giueth them, together with enterrainment into the houſes. the ſe profeſſe skill in phyſicke, and to remedie diſeaſ es, wounds, and ſtenlity; very conſtant in labour and hardſhip. others there are, inchanters and diuiners, ma- ſters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. sone there are more ciuill and ſecular, in their life profeſſing like pietie and holineſe. wo- men alſo are admitted vnto the fellowſhip of their ſtudies in this philoſophie, not ut their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of theſe brachmanes, the one an old man ſhauen, the other yong with long haire, which ſometimes reſorted to the marke. place, and were honored as counſellors, and freely tooke what they pleased, of any thing there to be ſold, for their ſuſtenance. they were appointed with seſamine ovle, wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to alx- anders table, where they gaue leſſons of patience i: and after going to a placenerſa 1 practise of prescribed pa¬ off, the old man lying downe with his face vpward, ſuſtained the sunne and ſhowen tience. terrible violence. the yonger ſtanding on one foot, held in both his hands a perceel wood of three cubits lifted vp, and ſhifted feete, as the other was wearie: andſother continued euery day. theyong man returned home afterward, but the old man fol- lowed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by some reproued, he anſwered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exerciſe, which he had vowed. oneſicritus ſaith, that alexander, hearing of ſome religious obſeruan, which went naked, and exerciſed themſelues to much hardſhip, and would m not con= m the like to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to come in stubbornnesse is yet in their them; ſent him vnto them, who found fifteene of them twentie furlongs from the c. joghies. tie, each of them obſeruing his owne geſture of ſitting, ſtanding, or lying naked, and noț ſtirring till sun-ſetting, in that vnſupportable heare, at which time they returned into the citie. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into per- ſia, where beginning to be ſicke, he cauſeda great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himſelfe in a golden chaire, and cauſed fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily conſumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander u n elian. var. babylon, the place fatall to alexanders death. alianus n faith, that this was done b. b. 5. cap. 6. in a ſuburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cypreffe, mittle, laurell, and other ſweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exerciſe of running, he pla- ced himſelfe in the middeſt, crowned with the leaues of reedes, the sunne ſhining on him, which he worſhipped. this adoration was the ſigne which he gaue to the mi- cedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any ſtirring till he was desd; alexander himſelfe admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told onefieritus of a golden world, where meale was as plenti- full as duſt, and fountaines ſtreamed milke, hony, wine and oyle. which counney, by men turned into wantonneſſe, iupiter altered and detained, impoſing a life of hardnesse and labour, which while men followed, they enioyed abundance; but now that men begin to ſurfet and grow diſobedient, there is danger of vniuerſall deſtruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, ſtrip himſelfe, and lye na- 6 arr. calleth ked vpon theſe ſtones. but mandanis, 9 another of them, reproued calanus for his him dandauis. harſhnes, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, faid that they mured lib. 7. their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds againſt paſſions. for his na- kednes