early 184 the suffering, or, passive conscience. cap. 13. some were hanged, some headed, some were -- burned, some drowned, some devoured of wilde beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more sa- vage then beast, yet they did all bear it, and rejoyced they suffered for conscience, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice bayted with wilde hearts, to be torn in pieces eccl. hist. by them, (as eusebius reports) attalus esca- l. 5. cap. 1. ping the beast, was reserved to other tor¬ ments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did hee bear all. socrat. hist. macedonius, theodulus, and tatianus laid 1.3. cap.13. upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus arethusius was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over- daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and stung to death with wasps, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in his diocess, which he had former¬ ly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and stung with wasps he did account farre theodoret more desirable, that he might preserve his lib. 3. cap. 6. conscience in puritie and peace, then to bee eaten up of horrour, and stung with hornets, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopt up in lakes, or caves artifici- ally made close, which lakes, or ditches were filled with a companie of dormise, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and books online, co. yrig the suffering, or, passive conscience. 185 and foot, that they could not keep off those cap.13. hunger-starved creatures, which were kept mag.cent. without meat also purposely, that they 4.cap.3. might fasten upon the bodies of those godly ex theodo- men; which lingring and miserable death they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the histo- rian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially stopt, and to be eaten up alive with those vermin, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this fort of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an in- fernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stopt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yeah, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lactantius saith not onely the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our latrones, woman, and little children (saith he) have & robusti endured all torments, and been too hard corporis vi- for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could i ejusmodi fetch so much as a groan from them: which laceratio- nes perferre the stoutest theeves and malefactors among nequeunt, their persecutors could not undergo, but exclamant, they would roare and crie out through im- & gemitus edunt; patience, and disabilitie to endure them. nostri au¬ tem (ut de viris taceam) pueri, & mulierculae tortores suos taciti vin¬ cunt, & expromere illis gemisum nec ignis potest. lact. i. 5. cap. 13. but