- . (10) this medicine. price four shillings the bottle. — vi. pulvis antifebriticus noster: or, our general febrifuge. an admirable ponder against fevers of all sorts. a few doses thereof (with the as use of the other medicines) takes off the fever be¬ vond expectation. 2. it is something sudorifick, but for the most part works downwards first, and af- terwards provokes sweat; it is a prevent remedy against putrid fevers, measles, small-pox, ca¬ lenture, spoted-fever, and other venemous disea¬ ses. 3. it is good against the green-sickness, drop¬ sie, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profita- ble in hectick fevers. 4. it results putrifaction, fortifies the stomach, corrects crudities, purifies the blood, cleanses the bowels of filth and viscous hu¬ mours, by a gentle purging way. the dose and manner of using it. et the patient drink plenty of our aq. vitae mag. according to the directions l in its place: give a dose of ponder in the morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you see occasion, more or less; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glass of canary, or a spoonful of syr. of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii. aqua e e e e e e a e — early english byright & 2019 p — (11) — vii. aqua ruba mineralis. is an excellent medicine of a preservative nature, i of great benefit in the plague, and other con¬ tagious distempers; particularly against the burn¬ ing thirst in fevers: good against coughs, short¬ ness of breath, prysick, the diseases of throat and mouth; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the month, thrush in children, quinsies, and such like inflammations; as also for an unsavory breath. it's use and dose. for thrushes or sore months in sucking children, or any foulness of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, sweetned with a little honey of roses, and so drink it, and wash their mouthes with the same; for people of riper years, they must gargle their months with it; it being composed to a gargarism with white-wine, or plantain-water, and dulcified with syrup of mulberries, or honey of roses; often taking from 6 drops to 40, or 50, in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirst in fevers, give from 6 drops to 40 or 50, or half a spoonful in so much beer, or ale, that it may tast sharpish of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5 or 6 hours space; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party desires to drink, obser- ving in such cases to take often to procure sweat, of my elixir. magnus cordialis, and at night to take b 3