early 196. natures explication, euforbium must do what cochipils will not: opium must do what let- tice posset will not; but first it must be mixed up into a ridiculous lauda- num; colocyntida & scammony must effect what manna, sene & rhubarb will not: o brave doctors! o ca- pita helleboro digna! yet you are the men that cry out against poy- $ons. 1 as though scammony, colocyntida, elaterium, esula, euphorbium, iala- pium, bryony, asarum, aaron, helle- bore, and such like, as cambogia, &c. were not absolute poysons. o but they are tempered by the art of the skilful doctor. good words cost no money, i wish it prove so. but i pray mr. doctor if it be so, what means the bleating of the sheep? i mean, what is the reason your medi- caments retain their vomiting quali¬ ty with convulsions of the stomach which have hellebore mixed, and their purging quality with gripings and on - and helmont's vindication. and such symptomes that have scam¬ mony mixed: thus you use to cor¬ rect poysons, thus you intend to cure diseases. minervam crassissimam! but as a jugler when his seats are discovered, so you by this means be- come ridiculous: you know the se¬ rious check the trog in aesop re¬ ceived; who as you do, would pre¬ tend to be a doctor, cur tibi ipsi la¬ bra livida non curas? couglis, colds, murres, hoarse¬ nesses, head-aches, tooth-aches and the like; nay oft times the simple itch and scab, doth reproach you at home, and outside you abroad, and what is your excuse? they are trivial cases. by which it appears, that if other diseases should become as common as these, they would all be too mean for the doctors reverence; and good reason, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountebanks 1 with 137