478 suburbs without the wals. in this plot of ground, there was (in! who were fetched thither usually in a that yeere) more than 50000. persons close cart, bayled over and covered buried, as i have read in the charters with blacke, having a plaine white of edward the third. crosse thwarting, and at the fore-end also i have seene and read an in- a s. iohns crosse without; and within a scription fixed on a stone crosse, some- bell ringing by shaking of the cart, time standing in the same church-yard wherby the same might be heard wher and having these words. it passed, & this was called the fryery anno domini, 1349. regnante magna cart, which belonged to s. iohns, and pestilentia, consecratum fuit hoc coemite- had the priviledge of sanctuary. rium, in quo & infra septa praesentis mo¬ in this charter-house werethe monu- nasterii, sepulta fuerunt mortuorum cor- ments of the said sir walter manny, and pora, plusquam quinquaginta millia, prae- margaret his wife, marmaduke lumley ter alia multa abhinc usque ad praesens, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward quorum animabus propitietur deus, a- hederset, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame johan borough, iohn dore, in consideration of the number of want water, knight, robert olney, es- christian people here buried, the said | quire, katharine, daughter sir william sir walter manny caused first a chap- babington, knight, blanch, daughter to pell to be builded, where (for the space hugh waterton, katharine, wife to iohn of twenty three yeares) offerings were | at poot, daughter and heire to richard made: and it is to be noted, that above lacie, william rawlin, sir john len 100000. bodies of christian people, thaine, and dame margaret his wife. had in that church-yard beene buried, | daughter to john fray, john peake es- for the said knight had purchased that quire, william baron, and william baron, place for the buriall of poore people, esquires, sir thomas thawites knight, of ch. travailers, and other that were disca. philip morgan, bishop of ely, 1434. charter. | sed, to remaine for ever ; whereupon, in the cloystrie, bartholomew rede, an order was taken, for the avoyding knight, maior of london, buried 1505. of contention betweene the parsons of sir john popham, &c. prepared churches and that house, to wit, that this monastery, at the suppression in the bodies should bee had unto the | the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at church where they were parishioners, | 642. y. 4.d. halfe penny yerely. maine for | or dyed, and after the funerall service done, had to the place where they here now i find fit time, to commend should be buried. to all succeding posterity, the duely de- the wor- and the yeere 1371. he caused there i served praises of that truely worthy (& to bee founded an house of carthusian | never to be forgotten) gentleman, ma- monkes, which he willed to be called ster thomas sutton, the right phœnix of the salutation, and that one of the charity in our times. this late dissol monkes should be called prior, and he | ved charter-house, by west smithfield gave them the sayd place of 13. acres belonging then to the right honorable and a rod of land, with the chappel, thomas earle of suffolke, after lord and houses there builded for their hal¬ treasurer of england, is sufficiently bitation. he also gave them the three i knowne to bee a very large and goodly acres of land, lying without the wals mansion, beautified with spacious gar¬ on the north part, betwixt the lands dens, walkes, orchards and other of the abbot of westminster, and the pleasures, enriched with divers depen- i have lands of the prior of saint iohn; which dencies of lands and tenements ther three acres being purchased, inclosed, to belonging, and very aptly seated and dedicated by ralph stratford, bi- for wholesome ayre, and many other shop of london, as is aforeshewed, re- | commodities. all which commodious vse for the | mained till our time, by the name of | nesse of situation, and largenesse of cir fryery catt. pardon church-yard, & served for busy- cuit, gave occasion to this well-minded by a gen. ing of such as desperately ended their | gentleman master sutton, to affect that worthand lives, or were executed for felonies, | house, as the onely place, whereon to build ooks online, copyright & 2019 pr. e suburbs without the wals. 479 build the foundation of his religious charter-house, which he had formerly purpose. for, among other his chri- intended at hallingbury: whereto the stian determinations, hee had former. | king readily yeelded, being graciously ly intended to build an house at hal- affected to so charitable a worke, and lingbury bouchers in essex, to be an hos- granted his letters patents to the same | the first pitall for such poore men and children effect. and the right reverend father gover- as he himselfe (in his life time, or fu-| in god, george, archbishop of cantur. pointed ture governors for the same to bee de barie, thomas lord ellesmere, lord puted) should thinke fit to bee lodged chancellor of england; robert lord and relieved there: also, for a schoole- high treasurer of england; john the e master and vsher, to teach children | lect bishop of london ; lancelor bishop to reade and write, and instruct them of ely; sir edward code, knight, in the in the latine and greeke grammar: chiefe iustice of the common pleas; charter- with a learned divine likewise to sir thomas foster, knight, one of his preach the word of god to them all majesties justices of the common and a master beside, to governe all pleas; sir henry hobard, knight and those people belonging to that house. baronet, attourney generall; iohn o- to this blessed end and purpose, hee verall, deane of pauls in london; had procured (by earnest suit) power george mountaine, deane of westminster; by an act of parliament, to build such henry thursby, esquire, one of the an hospitall in the towne of halling- masters of the chancerie; geffrey night- bury bouchers, and that the same should | tingale, esquire ; richard sutton, es- be named, the hospitall of king iames, | quite ; iohn law gentleman ; thomas founded in hallingbury in the coun- browne, gentleman; and the master of tie of essex, at the humble petition, the hospitall of king iames, founded in and at the onely costs and charges of the charter-house, within the county of thomas sutton, esquire: appointing middlesex, at the humble petition, and also such honourable, reverend and the onely costs and charges of thomas worthy persons, as by the said act of sutton, esquire, were elected, nomi- parliament were nominated and ap- nated and ordained by the kings most pointed, to bee the first and instant go- excellent majestie in his letters pa- vernors of the lands, possessions, tents granted, to bee the first gover- goods and reveneues of the said hos-nors of the lands, possessions, revenues and goods of the fore-said hospitall. but afterward, upon more grounded and continuall maintenance thereof in deliberation, and finding this goodly forme following. house of the charter-house, to bee much all his mannors and lordships of more convenient for the purpose, than | southminster, norton, little hallingbury, that to be builded at hallingbury could alias hallingburg bouchers, and much- the main be: hee became an earnest suiter to the | stanbridge, in the county of essex. earle of suffolke, to purchase that tenance all those his mannors and lord- of the said house of him, acquainting his honor ships of bastingthorpe, alias, bustingthorpe, hospitall with the alteration of his minde con- and dunnesby in the county of lin- cerning hallingbury, and his earnest de¬ county fire to make the charter-house his hof of essex. all those his mannors and lord pitall. the earle being honourably ships of salthorp, alias, saltrop, alias enclined to so godly a motion, the mat- haltrop, chilton and blackgrove, in the ter sustained the lesse debating between i county of wilts. and also all those his them: but the price being concluded | lands & pasture-grounds, called black- on, the bargaine and sale was assured. grove, contayning by estimation 200. lands a the summe disbursed for this purpose, acres of pasture, with the appurte- amounted to 13000,l’which was paid | nances in blackgrove and wroughton, in in the downe in hand, before the ensealing of the said county of wilts. and also in counties the conveyance. that his mannor of missenden, otherwise of cam- then he became suiter againe to his called the mannor of missunder, majestie, to performe all that at the in the parishes of wroughton, lydierde