directions for health. 70 sture, and hastneth on old age and death. sperme or seede of generation is the onely comforter of nature, which wilfully sched or lost, harmeth a man more, then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how wiuelesse batchelers, and hus- bandlesse maides, should drive away their vn- cleane drawing of venery at nights. first, they must refraine from wine, and ve¬ nerous imaginations, and not vse to lye in soft down beds. secondly, they must addict them- selues to read the bible and morall philoso- phy. thirdly, they must exercise often their bodies. lastly, if none of these preuaile, let them vse the seed of agnus castus, in english parke seed, and they shall feele a strange effect to follow. . of bathes. chap. 5. what is the vse of bathes? old and naturall bathes are greatly expe¬ dient for men subiect to rheumes, drop sies and gouts. neither can i easily expresse in words how much good cold bathes doe bring [m] e early english books online, copyright c 2019 proquest llc of bathes. 71 — vnto them that vse them: howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man distemvered through venery, gluttony watching, fasting, or through violent exer¬ cise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholsome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lee made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountaine water vpon your head. then let your head be dryed with cold towels. which sodaine pounds downe of cold water, although it doth mighti¬ ly terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the me- mary is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much auaile the eye¬ sight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall ba- thing is very expedient and wholsome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the iuyce of wormwood and wild mallowes, one f4 - ource