gods word the safest guide. 34 cannot hate them, but him it hated: the rea- iebn. 7.7. son followeth, not for iniury but for in- nocency, not for falshood but for truth: he certified that the workes thereof were euill. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so smal account, but because the world of the vnregene- 1. john 5.19. rate lieth in wickednes, and faith to car- nall affections bringeth little content- ment? how can it be that oppressours extortioners, usurers, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertaine the gospell: since zacchens must diuide his goods, mathew must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vse this world as if 1. cor. 7. 31. the life of they vsed it not? how hard therefore will faith very dif- it be for such as trust in uncertaine ri- ficult to na¬ ches, to subiect themselves to this life of zure. faith? may not gods ministers take vp a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to euerlasting blisse plainly beaten foorth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how sluggish are our com- mon professours, that cannot watch one house? early english books online, copyrig gods word the safest guide. 35 house? and how faithlesse are those back- sliding hypocrites, as if the unchangeable poffessour of heauen and earth were vn- faithfull, or unable to recompence and fully reward his faithfull people? thus we see, that streight is the way. and small is the number that god it. e- phrain is an vntuly heifer that will not be tamed. euer haue gods saints bene like the shaking of an oliue after the vin- tage. wicked men are mad men, they will not be ordered; they are deafe men, they will not heare, charme the char- mer never so wisely. if that he sinne which is not done of saith, how wofull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor beleeue, being blinde and dissolute: having from their nonage old naturall men are very to their old age wandred from the waies miserable, for of god, being seuen fold more the chil-they are full dren of hell then they were in their mo-of sinnes. thers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were neuer gulightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driuen me into such a narrow straight, & so paled me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the nouelties of the a- thenians,