the unhappy voyage. giving an account of the royal anne galley, captain willis commander, which was split to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizard the 15th of november, 1721, having on board the lord bellhaven, who was going as governor to barbados, with several other persons of distinction, the whole number on board being 210, out of which there were only three saved; whose names are george hain, william goffey, and thomas lawrence, a boy. to the tune of, women's work is never done, &c. o! the sad and dismal story, issuing from the lizard rocks; the royal anne in all her glory, there receiv'd a fatal shock: the winds and waves did both conspire, for to ruin all therein: oh! bellhaven, brave bellhaven! most unhappy hast thou been. governors unto barbados, he was failing bold and brave, little dreaming it was his fortune, for to have a watry grave. with many more of noble persons, which were put in place of trust, but oh! their sands were left expiring, their time was come and die they must. above two hundred souls were perish'd, in an infant all were lost, the winds and waves were driven, on the stag rocks they were cast; oh! the dismal cries and screaming, 'twould have pierc'd a heart of stone, when the galley split to pieces, for to hear their piteous moan. of those that were on board the vessel, only three were left on the shore, who on a wreck by the winds were carried, thro' the waves and billows roar: then brake the lord for his great mercy, yea they have been deliver'd, adore and magnify god's goodness, willingly your maker serve. captain willis was commander, at this most unhappy time, we may be attorney general, with many more of noble their prime, where going over for to settle, at barbados we do hear, but by the ocean they were follow'd, while they did their courses steer. what a scene of dismal horror, there appear'd when the sun o'er, bodies floating on the ocean, by the waves were drove on shore, and the country people running, some of whom would get no help, stripped all without diffraction, 'tis the custom of the coast. one gentleman was drove on shore, born whom they found a thousand pound, whose name's suppos'd to be goffey, by writing in his pocket found. likewise they say the lord bellhaven, having on a diamond ring, has shown himself in the ringing ocean, did to shore his body bring. oh! the grief and sad diffraction, which this accident hath brought, on the wives and near relations, of the persons that are lost. some for their wives, their fathers, brothers, kindred do lament, with aching hearts, and weeping eyes, to think how from them they are rent. but now observe the dismal story, given by the three that's sav'd, george hain, william goffey, and thomas lawrence, a boy 'tis said, as to barbados we were failing, lord bellhaven, he did say, come noble boys and jovial sailors, happy may our voyage be. but drawing near unto the lizard, there the storm began to rise, nothing then but defolation, did appear before our eyes, such a dreadful scene of sorrow, that none could describe it, oh! bellhaven! brave bellhaven! most unhappy hast thou been. captain willis cry'd brave sailors, do your best, or die we must, lord have mercy, now receive us, in the promise of the lord, save us in the time of danger, for death before our eyes appears, and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell down to prayer. the galley on the fatal rocks, the royal galley split in twain, two hundred souls aloud were crying, lord save us from the watry main, to each face a death a shifting, as the lord tost mournful cries, the galley in the deep a flinting, while dying groans did pierce the sky. let the noble lord bellhaven, climb up to the heavens high, with many more of birth and breeding, who likewise in the waves did die, at length the galley split in pieces, death put an end to all their woe, we are poor wretches upon a wreck, with wounds was riddled too and fro. at length unto the shore was driven, where the people took us in, we praise the lord for his great mercy, since we're preserved from the flood, and fall down in the fatal hour, when the waves did us surround, and many a soul did perish, and before our eyes were drown'd. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, wives for their husbands, husbands for their children for their father dear, let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrow they are in, and think upon the lord bellhaven, how unhappy he has been. a noble lady in the city, hearing of her husband's death, 'twould have mov'd a heart of pity, to hear the words she did expect, oh! bellhaven! brave bellhaven! i'll search the deep to find my dear, o cruel death come feitze me soon. thus the raves in fad diffraction, in her bed she lay pale and bereft, one night and day my povet, he is in the ocean drown'd: thus many a mournful widow, and babies fatherless so many, consider the lord's mercies, which the sailors thro' do wade. many more that night did perish, in the storm as we do hear, as in the downs the fleet was riding, some lord bellhaven did share, lord keep us from such difficulties, deliver us from hidden death, and give us grace that we may serve, the mighty god while we have breath.