that this may give us a farther prospect; not only sugar, but ginger too being, as i have been informed, a very good commodity as high as the levant. and if so, or if there should be found any other motive to proceed so far, i cannot think it altogether impossible but that suitable means and proper regulations may be thought on. however, the advantages that may arise from any trade can never be fully known but by experience: and this in particular, as it will be among a rich people, plenteous in money, affords at present as fair a prospect as any. if then a license for this spanish trade should be deemed adviseable, as i hope it will, it may be no unprofitable part to consider, upon what terms our merchants are like to stand, with relation to those of france, who do carry on, and will still continue the trade against them: and herein particularly as to duties. the author of the political state, in that for the month of april 1731, has this remark: "even in exporting sugars (says he) to our plantations on the continent, the french sugar colonies have a great advantage over ours. for as our planters pay four and a half per cent. upon exporting their sugars from their own plantations, and the french pay but one per cent. it's evident that the french may sell their sugars in our plantations upon the continent three and a half per cent. cheaper than our own colonies can do, granting that the prime cost be equal in both colonies; which is an advantage sufficient to ruin any trade in the world.*" but i must take notice, that the enumerated duty, which is five shillings per hundred on white sugar, and eighteen pence per hundred upon brown sugar, is not there included or considered at all, and which is nearest now ten per cent. more: so that the present difference between the french and us, in the duties of sugars upon this trade to north america, instead of three and a half per cent. is nearest in reality thirteen and * page 352.