whereas the queen has been pleased to direct, that a monthly correspondence be established between this kingdom, and her majesties dominions on the continent of america; packet-boats are now to be sent from bristol to new-york, between which last place, and the several provinces, colonies, and settlements of new-england, east and west-jersey, pennsylvania and rhode-island, regular inland-boats are already fitted, and others are about to be fitted, through maryland, virginia, north and south-carolina; for the more easy and expeditious conveyance of all letters and packets, which shall be conveyed by means of the said packet-boats. i have the honor to give notice hereof, and that shortly a prefix'd time will be published, when letters and packets will be taken in at the general post-office, and at the several post-offices throughout great-britain, and ireland, and a day be appointed every month, when the mail will be dispatched from the general post-office for bristol, from whence the packet-boats are to take their departure. the rates for the portage of letters and packets, to, and from the general post-office in london and new-york, being as follows. | description | rate | |--------------------------------------|------| | for every single letter, not exceeding 1/2 sheet of paper | 1 d. | | for every double letter, not exceeding 1 sheet of paper | 2 d. | and in proportion to the same rates for every packet of letters. and for packets of any kind of greater weight, for every ounce the packet-boats are to be of the burthen of about eighty tons, built on purpose for sailing, of strength to resist the sea, well mann'd, and commodiously contrived for entertaining passengers, who will be kindly received, and entertained on board, on easy terms. the said packet-boats are permitted to carry out upon freight, the quantity of five tons in goods, and bring home ten tons, whereby all people may send small parcels to new york, or any other place thence by land-carriage, and be accommodated therein at reasonable rates. as they may be more particularly informed by william warren, undertaker of the said packet-boats, in crown-court, in gracious street, london. printed by j. sewle, in white-hart-court in gracious-street.