the gentlewomen's yolks of two eggs 1-2, one yolk of draught, and 1-2 yolks according to the quantity of your ale: beat them very well, and take away the skin of the yolks, when the ale boils put them in, and keep them boiling continuously: and when it has cooked a while, sweeten it with sugar; and if it be to eat, cut two or three loaves of white bread, take them dry, and put them to the candle, but if it be to drink put in wine. to stew beef. take a good rump of beef cut from the bones, shred turnips and carrots small, with spinach and lettuce, put all in a pan and let it stew four hours with so much water, and a quart of white-wine as will cover it, some pepper and salt: when it is stewed then put in a wine-glass full of good el- der vinegar, and serve it with sip- pits. to boyl a gammon of bacon. water your gammon of bacon twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep kettle with sweet hay, let it boil softly six or seven hours, and then take it up with a scummer and a piats, and take off the skin whole, then stick your gam- cabin'et unlocked. gammon full of cloves, and strew on some good pepper, then cut your skin like sippets to garnish your gammon: and when you serve it, stick it with bay-leaves. to boyl brawn. water your brawn twenty-four hours, wash and scrape it four or five times, then take it out of the water and lay it on a clean table, and throw an handful of salt on every collar, then bind them up as fast as you can with hemp or hals, and put them in your kettle, when the water boils, and the scum arises, take it away: let it boil so tender that you may thrust a skewer through it, then let it cool till the next morning, and serve. to make a white-pot. take the milk and sweet cream, and boil it with good rose of sugar and cinnamon, a little rose-water: then take it from the fire and put into it clean picked rice, but not so much as to make it thick, and let it steep therein till it be cold: then put in the yolks of six eggs and two whites, currants, nut- meg and salt: then put it into the pan or pot, as thin as if it were a custard, and