purslain, white and red. these differ very little, if any thing, from those in england, except in the rankness of their growth here. they are generally boiled and used, when more valuable greens are not in plenty. the arabian jessammy; lat. jasminum sive sambac arabum. this is a woody creeping vine, cloathed with dark-green sharp-pointed leaves, of about two inches long, and one broad, bearing seven-leaved white fragrant flowers. these are supported by seven very sharp-pointed graminous leaves. this is planted chiefly in gardens, or near dwelling-houses. it yields a very agreeable fragrant smell, and keeps its verdure all the year. tithymaloides. the roots of this are very numerous and strong. the main stalk branches near the earth, into many spiral strong twigs. the bark of the trunk, near the roots, is smooth and whitish; but all its branches of a deep shining green, keeping their grateful verdure undiminished thro' every season of the year. these are cloathed with thick succulent green round-pointed leaves, of about four inches long, and two in breadth, having their smooth edges a little tinged with yellow. these are likewise set on the branches alternately. the flower, which is of a fine deep red, cannot be reduced to any class that hath hitherto been described by any botanical writer, it being a triangular sharp-pointed small horizontal sheath; the top of the pistil jutting out, making the extremity of the longest angle: this, on the inside of the flower, is covered with a yellow farinaceous dust. from the same narrow aperture appear several small stamina, tipped with green apices. these flowers are succeeded by triangular small berries, of a dark red when ripe. each of these incloses three angular seeds. the berries, branches, and leaves, are full of a thick glutinous milky juice. the only place that i have seen this was at cluff's bay, in st. lucy's parish. this very seldom grows in any other part of the island.