they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god; where they imagine to have been the beginning of making the world; and that before the four elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heavens and stars consist. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. the germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored amongst them: especially such of them as live in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of those wild fruits, and their habit of the barks of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more than with ceres. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by messengers; and doe pacifie the angry gods, as is supposed, by their holiness. next in honor to these, are certaine mendicants, which live of rice and bully, which any man at the first asking giveth them, to gether with entertainment into their houses. these profess skill in physicke, and to remedie diseases, wounds, and ill-temper, very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanters and diviners, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander through townes and cities. some there are more civil and secular, in their life professing like pietie and holiness. women also are admitted into the fellowship of their studies in this philosophy, not to their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of these brethrens, the one an old man shaven, the other young with long hair, which sometimes retired to the marketplace, and were honored as counsellors, and freely took what they pleased, of anything there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were anointed with sesaminoyle, wherewith, and with honey, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to alexanders table, where they gave lessons of patience; and after going to a place remote off, the old man lying downe with his face upward, sustained the sunne and showed terrible violence. the younger standing on one foot, held in both his hands a piece of wood of three cubits lifted up, and shifted feet, as the other was weary: and so they continued every day. the young man returned home afterward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by some reproved, he answered that he had fulfilled the forty years exercise, which he had vowed. oneferitus saith, that alexander, hearing of some religious observants, which went naked, and exercised themselves to much hardship, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would have anything with them, to come to them; sent him unto them, who found fifteen of them twenty furlongs from the city, each of them observing his own gesture of sitting, standing, or lying naked, and not stirring till sun-setting, in that unspurtable heat, at which time they returned into the city. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into persia, where beginning to be sick, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himself in a golden chair, and caused fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander in babylon, the place fatal to alexanders death. oneferitus saith, that this was done in a suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cypress, mistletoe, laurel, and other sweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercise of running, he placed himself in the middle, crowned with the leaves of reeds, the sunne shining on him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the signe which he gave to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any stirring till he was dead; alexander himself admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told oneferitus of a golden world, where meale was as full as dust, and fountains streamed milke, honey, wine and oyle. which country, by men turned into wantonness, jupiter altered and detained, imposing a life of hasting and labour, which while men followed, they enjoyed abundance; but now that men begin to surfeit and grow disobedient, there is danger of universal destruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would hear further, strip himselfe, and lay naked upon these stones. but mandanis, another of them, reproved calanus for his harshness, and, commending alexander for his love to learning, said that they must their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds against passions. for his m...