cap. 13. some were hanged, some beaded, some were burned, some drowned, some devoured of wild beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more savage than beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoiced they suffered for conscience, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice bayted with wild beasts, to be torn in pieces by them, (as eusebius reports) attalus escaping the beasts, was referred to other torments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all. macedonius, theodulus, and tatianus laid upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus arethius was stripped naked, then had his body all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and stung to death with wasps, yet did he suffer all rather than give one half-penny to re-edifie that idol temple in his diocese, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and stung with wasps he did account farre more detestable, that he might preserve his conscience in purity and peace, then to be eaten up of horror, and stung with hornets, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopp'd up in lakes, or caves artificially made close, which lakes, or ditches, were filled with a company of dormice, kept hungry to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and foot, that they could not keep off those hunger-starved creatures, which were kept without meat also purposely, that they might fasten upon the bodies of those godly men; which lingring and miserable death they underwent, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the historian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially stopp'd, and to be eaten up alive with those vermin, their conscience being preserved, then to yield up this fore of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an infernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stopp'd up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lactantius saith not only the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (saith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could fetch so much as a groan from them: which the stoutest thieves and malefactors among their persecutors could not undergo, but they would roar and cry out through impatience, and disabilitie to endure them. latrones, & robusti corporis vi- ejusmodi laceratio- nes perferre nequunt, exclamant, & gemuris edunt; nostri autem (ut de viris raceam) pueri, & mulierculae tortores suos taciti vin- cant, & exprimere illis gemium nec ignis potest. lib. 1.5. cap. 13. but