DOUGLAS
LIBRARY

QUEEN'S UNIVERSITY
AT KINGSTON
Presented by
James T. Gow, Q.C., Toronto
From the Lib. of John E. Gow
June 1968
KINGSTON ONTARIO CANADA
THE Natural History OF COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, THEE, TOBACCO.

In four several Sections;

WITH A TRACT OF ELDER and JUNIPER-BERRIES,
Shewing how Useful they may be in Our COFFEE-HOUSES:
And also the way of making M U M,
With some Remarks upon that LIQUOR.

Collected from the Writings of the best Physicians, and Modern Travellers.

LONDON:
Printed for Christopher Wilkinson, at the Black Boy over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleetstreet. 1682.
#C911 .682 .N37
THE Natural History OF COFFEE.

SECT. I.

COFFEE is said to be a sort of Arabian Bean, called Bon, or Ban in the Eastern Countries, the Drink made of it is named Coava, or Chaube over all the Turkish Dominions. Prosper Alpinus (who liv'd several years in Egypt) assures us that he saw the Tree it self, which he compares to our Spindle Tree, or Prickwood, only the Leaves were a little thicker, and harder, besides continually Green. This Tree is found in the Desarts of Arabia, in some parts of Persia and India, the Seed or Berry of which is called by the Inhabitants Buncho, Bon, and Ban, which being dry'd, and boyld with Water, is the most Universal Drink in all the Turkish, and several Eastern Countries, where Wine is publickly forbid; it has been the most antient Drink of
the Arabians, and some will have the jus nigrum Spartanorum, the black Broth of the Spartans, to have been the same with our Coffee: the Persians at this day do tipple as much Coffee off as the Turks themselves. Tavernier in his Description of Ispahan (the Metropolis of Persia) is very jocose and merry, when he comes to describe the famous Coffee-House of that City; he says, that the wise Sha Abas observing great numbers of Persians to resort to that House daily, and to quarrel very much about State-affairs, appointed a Moullah to be there every day betimes to entertain the Tobacco-whiffers, and Coffee-quaffers with a point of Law, History, or Poetry; after which, the Moullah rises up, and makes Proclamation that every man must retire, and to his business: upon which they all observe the Moullah, who is always liberally entertain'd by the Company. Olearius does also speak of the great diversions made in their Coffee-Houses of Persia by their Poets, and Historians, who are seated in a high Chair, from whence they make Speeches, and tell Satyrical Stories, playing in the mean time with a little stick, and the same gestures, as our Juglers and Legerdemain-men do in England.

As for the qualities and nature of Coffee, our own Countryman, Dr. Willis, has publish'd a very rational Account, whose great Reputation and Authority are of no small force; he says, that in several Headachs, Dizziness, Lethargies, and Catarrhs, where there is a gross habit of Body, and a cold heavy Constitution, there Coffee may be proper, and successful; and in these cases he sent his Patients to the Coffee-House rather than to the Apothecaries Shop: but where the temperament is hot, and lean, and active, there Coffee may not be very agreeable, because it may dispose the Body to inquietudes, and leanness. The Dr. makes one unlucky observation of this Drink, which I am afraid will cow our Citizens from
from ever meddling with it hereafter, that it often makes men Paralytick, and does so slacken their strings, as they become unfit for the sports, and exercises of the Bed, and their Wives recreations; to confirm which, I will quote here two Precedents out of the most Learned Olearius, who says, that the Persians are of an opinion that Coffee allays their natural heat, for which reason they drink it, that they may avoid the charge, and inconveniences of many Children: nay, the Persians are so far from dissembling the fear they have thereof, that some of them have come to the Holstein Physician of that Embassy, for Remedies to prevent the multiplication of Children, but the Doctor being a merry bold German, answered the Persians, that he had rather help them to get Children, than to prevent them. The most famous Olearius (that made so many curious, and accurate Observations in his Travels) tells us of a Persian King, named Sultan Mahomet Cafvin, who Reigned in Persia before Tamerlane's time, that was so accustomed to drinking of Cahwa, or Coffee, that he had an unconceivable aversion to Women, and that the Queen standing one day at her Chamber Window, and perceiving they were about gelding a Horse, ask'd some standers by, why they treated so handsome a Creature in that manner; whereupon answer was made her, that he was too fiery and mettlesome, therefore they resolv'd to deprive him of his generative faculty: the Queen reply'd, that trouble might have been spar'd, since Cahwa, or Coffee, would have wrought the fame effect, the experiment being already try'd upon the King her Husband. This King left a Son, call'd Mahomet, after him, as our greatest most grave and faithful Traveller does assure us, who being come to the Crown, commanded that great Poet Hakim Fardasfi, to present him with some Verses, for every one of which the Sophy promised him a Ducat;
the Poet in a short time made sixty thousand, which at this day are accounted the best that ever were made in Persia, and Hakim Fardausi esteem'd the Poet Laureat of the East; the Treasurers thinking it too great a sum for a Poet, would have put him off with half, whereupon Fardausi made other Verses, wherein he reproach'd the King with Avarice, and told him, he could not be of Royal Extraction, but must be rather descended from a Shoemaker, or a Baker: Mahomer being netled, made complaint to the Queen his Mother, who suspecting that the Poet had discovered her Amours, ingeniously confessed to the King her Son, that his Father being Impotent through his excessive drinking of Cakwa, or Coffee, she fancied a Baker belonging to the Court, and said, if it had not been for the Baker, the young King had never been what he was; so lest the business should take wind, the Poet got his full reward. But let us return a little into our old serious road.

Coffee is said to be very good for those, that have taken too much Drink, Meat, or Fruit, as the Learned Schroder will inform you, as also against shortness of Breath, and Rheum, and it is very famous in old obstructions, so that all the Egyptian, and Arabian Women, are observ'd to promote their Monthly courses with Coffee, and to tipple constantly of it all the time they are flowing, for which we have the undoubted authority of Prosper Alpinus, who spent several years amongst them. It is found to ease the running Scorbutick Gout, or Rheumatism, as Mollenbroccius has affirm'd.

As for the manner of preparing Coffee, it is so easie, and so commonly known, that we need not mention it, only we may observe, that some of the Asiatick Nations make their Coffee of the Coat, or Husk of the Berry, which they look upon to be much stronger, and more efficacious than the Berry it self, so that they take
a less quantity of it; but the Europæans do peel and take off the outward skin of the Berries, which being so prepar'd, are Bak'd, and Burnt, afterwards grinded to Powder; one Ounce of which they mix commonly with a Pint and a half of hot Water, which has been boyl'd half away, then they are digested together, till they are well united.

The Laplanders prepare a very good Drink out of Juniper-Berries, which some prefer before either Coffee, or Thee, of which Berries we will Discourse in a Tract at the end of these Sheets.
THE Natural History OF THEE.

SECT. II.

THIS Herb Thee is commonly found in China, Japan, and some other Indian Countries, the Chinese call it Thee, the Japonians Tchia, that of Japan is esteem'd much the best, one pound of it being commonly sold for 100 pounds, as Tulpius informs us from several great men, that have been Ambassadors, and Residents in those parts, so that most of the Thee, which is brought into Europe, comes from China, and that too of the worst kind, which cannot but decay in so long a Voyage, for the Dutch have been observ'd to dry a great quantity of Sage, whose Leaves being rowl'd up like Thee, were carried into China by them under the name of a most rare European Herb, for one pound of this dry'd Sage the Dutch receiv'd three pounds of Thee from the Chinese, as Thevenet informs us,
us, there is a great Controversie amongst the Herbalists, to what Classis this Thee may be reduc'd, Bontius compares it to the Leaves of our Wild Daisy; for which Simon Pauli is very angry with him, and gives very strong Arguments, that Thee is the Leaves of a sort of Myrtle, for out of the Leaves of Myrtle, a Liquor may be made, resembling Thee in all qualities, therefore the Jesuite Trigautius is of an opinion, that several of our European Forrests and Woods do abound with a true Thee, it being observ'd to grow in great plenty in Tartary (which lies under the same Climate with many Countries of Europe,) from whence, some Learned men think, it came Originally, for it has not been long known to the Chinese, they having no antient name, or Hieroglyphick Characters for Thee, and Cha being an antient Tartarian Word, besides it is known to several Merchants, that a great quantity of Thee is brought yearly out of Tartary into Persia, we are all acquainted with the several great Conquests, which the Tartars have made in China, so that the Chinese have had several opportunities of learning the use of Thee from the Tartars, in whose Country it is observ'd to be in great plenty, and of little value; yet the Inhabitants of China and Japan have a great esteem, and opinion of it, where they are as much employ'd, and concern'd for their Harvest of Thee, (which is in Spring) as the Europeans are for their Vintage, as several Jesuits inform us in their Observations of China: for the Noblemen, and Princes of China and Japan, drink Thee at all hours of the Day, and in their Visits it is their whole Entertainment, the greatest Persons of Quality Boyling, and Preparing the Thee themselves, every Palace, and House, being furnish'd with convenient Rooms, Furnaces, Vessels, Pots and Spoons for that purpose, which they value at a higher rate than we do Diamonds, Gems, and Pearls, as Tulpius assures
assures us from the relations of several great Dutch-men, who travell'd China in the Quality of Ambassadors, and made great Observations of those rich Stones, and Woods, out of which the aforesaid Materials were made.

As for the Qualities and Vertues of Thee, these few following Observations may give satisfaction, that it makes us active and lively, and drives off sleep, every Drinker of it cannot but be sensible. The great Jesuit Alexander de Rhodes, always Cur'd himself of a Periodical pain of his Head by Thee, and having often occasion to sit up whole Nights in China to take the Confessions of dying People, he found the great benefit of Thee in those great watchings, so that he was always as vigorous, and fresh the next day, as though he had rested all night; nay, he says, that he sate up six nights together by the assistance of Thee. Kircher himself took notice of Thee for clearing the Head, and opening the Urinary passages; and it was observ'd by those concern'd in the Dutch Embassy to China, that the Chinese did spit very little, and were seldom subject to the Stone, and Gout, which their Physicians imputed to their frequent Drinking of Thee: it is a common Proverb in Japan, Ilene jamus non fit? Bilit de optimâ Tsiâ, What, is not he well? He Drinks of the best Thee. I know some that Celebrate good Thee for preventing Drunkenness, taking it before they go to the Tavern, and use it also very much after a Debauch, Thee being found so friendly to their Stomachs, and Heads: several Ambassadors find the advantage of it in preserving them from the accidents and inconveniences of a bad Foreign Air; but that which gives the greatest commendation to Thee, is the good Character which our famous Country-man, Mr. Boyl, gives of it in his Experimental Philosophy, where he says, that it deserves those great praises which are commonly bestow'd upon it. Yet Simon Pauli exclaims against the use
use of Thee, as a great dryer, and promoter of old Age, and as a thing unnatural, and foreign to the European Complexions. But Schroder answers Pauli very mildly, supposing him to speak only of the abuse, and extravagant management of Thee; for otherwise Rheubarb, China, Sassafras, and Saunders, should be banisht from our Shops by the same reason, they being Dryers, and foreign to us English-men, therefore we may conclude Thee innocent, and beneficial.

The Chineses gather the Leaf in the Spring one by one, and immediately put them to warm in an Iron Kettle over the Fire, then laying them on a fine light Mat, rolls them together with their Hands; the Leaves thus roll'd are again hang'd over the Fire, and then roll'd closer together, till they are dry, then put up carefully in Tin Vessels to preserve them from moisture: thus they prepare the best Leaves, that yield the greatest rates, but the common ordinary ones are only dry'd in the Sun, yet in the Shade is doubtless much better, (as the ingenious Author of Vinetum Britannicum does well observe) the Sun having a great power to attract the vertue out of any Vegetable after its separation from its nourisher, the Earth. One spoonful of this prepar'd Thee is enough for one quart of boyl'd Water.

There are several ways and methods for preparing Thee. The Japonians powder the Plant upon a Stone, and so put it into hot Water. The Chineses boyl the Leaves with Water and a little Sugar. Some Europeans make Tinctures, Infusions, Conserves, and Extracts of Thee. The Tartars are observ'd to boyl their Thee in Milk with a little Salt, which way they think is the very best.

The Inhabitants of Carolina prepare a Liquor out of the Leaves of an American Tree, which is very like Thee, and equal to it in every respect, Dr. Mundy observes that
the Inhabitants of Florida have an old custom, before they go into the Field to War, of Drinking a Liquor in a great publick Assembly, which he that Vomits up, is judg'd unfit for that Warlike Expedition, and is condemn'd to stay at home in disgrace; but when he has learnt to carry off the Liquor, then he is admitted to be a lawful Soldier: Now Thee it self when given in a large dose, and in a strong Decoction, does often prove Vomitive, as I myself have observ'd several times.

Some make Decoctions of the Roots of Avena, Galanga, Coriander, and Aniseeds, Sarsa, China, Saunders, of the Leaves of Sage, Betony, Rosemary, &c, which they do extol above Thee or Coffee.
THE Natural History OF CHOCOLATE.

SECT. III.

Having given a short Natural History of two things, which are so universally us'd in the Eastern part of the World, we now come to treat briefly of two more, which are generally us'd in the Western: First of Chocolate, of which the Cacao, or Cacaw-nut, being the principal Ingredient, a short Account of it cannot be improper, this Nut, or rather the Seed, or Kernel of the Nut, as Mr. Hughes observes, is of the bigness of a great Almond; in some of these Fruits there are a dozen, in some 20, in others 30, or more of these Kernels, or Caco's, which are well describ'd by the Ingenious and Learned Dr. Grew, when these Kernels are cured they become blackish, and are compar'd to a Bullocks Kidney, cut into Partitions; there is great variety in them, by reason of the difference of Soyls and Climates where they grow: the Tree is said to be as large as our English Plumb-trees. the Leaves sharp-pointed, compar'd by some Travellers to the Leaves
of Chesnut; by the Curious Piso to the Leaves of an Orange, the Flower of a Saffron colour, upon the appearance of which, the Fruit appears upon the Branches as Apples: This Tree grows in several parts of America, as in Nicaragua, New Spain, Mexico, Cuba, and in Jamaica, especially at Colonel Larington's Quarters, or Plantations; they prosper best in low, moist, and fat ground, and are as squarely, and orderly set, as the Cherry Trees in Kent, or Worcestershire: they commonly bear within 7 years, and then twice every year, the first Crop between January and February, the other between May and June. The Inhabitants have so great a value for them, as that they secure them with the shades of Plantane and Bonona Trees, against the injuries of their fiery Sun, and do use the Kernels instead of Money, both in their Traffick, and Rewards; as the great Jesuit, Josephus Acosta, observ'd, when he was sent into America: The Indians look upon their Chocolate as the greatest delicacy for extraordinary Entertainments. Montezuma is said to have Treated Cortez and his Soldiers with it; and you can scarce read an American Traveller, but he will often tell you of the magnificent Collations of Chocolate, that the Indians offer'd him in his Passage and Journies through their Country: as Mr. Gage (who Travell'd many years in America) informs us, the Spaniards do constantly drink Chocolate in their Churches, at Mexico and Chiapa, of which they being once forbid, did Mutiny, and commit great Outrages, till their Custom was restor'd them. The Indians, and Christians, in the American Plantations, have been observ'd to live several Months upon Cacao Nuts alone, made into a Paste with Sugar, and so dissolv'd in Water; I myself have eaten great quantities of these Kernels raw, without the least inconvenience: and have heard, that Mr. Boyle, and Dr. Stubbs, have let down into their Stomachs some pounds
pounds of them raw without any molestation; the Stomach seems rather to be satiated, than cloy'd with them, which is an Argument they are soon dissolv'd, and digested. The Spaniards do not scruple to eat them upon their great Fast days.

The Indians at first made their Chocolate of the Nut alone without any addition, unless sometimes Pepper, and Maiz, or Indian Wheat, and in Jamaica at this day, as Mr. Hughes observes, there is a sort of Chocolate, made up only of the Paste of the Cacao it self, and this he esteems to be one of the best sorts of Chocolate. Dr. Stubbs, who was a great Master of the Chocolate Art, did not approve of many Ingredients, besides the Cacao Nut; that Chocolate which the Doctor prepared for His Majesty, had double the quantity of the Cacao Kernel to the other Ingredients: In the common sort the Cacao Nuts may take up half the Composition, according to Piso, in the worst a third part only. As to the other Ingredients for making up Chocolate, they may be varied according to the constitutions of those that are to drink it; in cold constitutions Jamaica Pepper, Cinnamon, Nutmegs, Cloves, &c. may be mixt with the Cacao Nut: some add Musk, Ambergrase, Citron, Lemon-Peels, and Odoriferous Aromatick Oyls: In hot Consumptive tempers you may mix Almonds, Pistachios, &c. sometimes China, Sarsa, and Saunders; and sometimes Steel and Rhubarb may be added for young green Ladies. Mr. Hughes gives us very good advice, in telling us, that we may buy the best Chocolate of Seamen and Merchants, who bring it over ready made from the West Indies; his reason is none of the worst, which is this, let the Cacao Kernels be never so well cur'd in the West Indies, and stowed never so carefully in the Ship, yet by their long transportation, and by the various Airs or Climates they are often spoilt, their natural Oyls
tending much to putrefaction: from whence I have heard several complain in England, that their Chocolate made up here does often prove musty, and will settle much to the bottom of the Dish, which is a certain sign, says the Learned Dr. Stubbs, that the Nuts are either faulty, or not well beaten, and made up. The best Cacao Nuts are said to come from Carraca or Nicaragua, out of which Dr. Stubbs prepar'd Cholocate for the King; yet the Doctor commends the Cacao Nuts of Jamaica, which were first Planted there by the Spaniards. That you may know how to Prepare your Chocolate, I will give you a short direction, if you intend to make it up your self; consult your own constitution and circumstances, and vary the Ingredients according to the Premises, for I cannot give a Receipt to make up the mass of Chocolate, which will be agreeable, and proper to all Complexions; yet in the Composition of it, you must remember to appoint the Cacaw Kernel for the fundamental and principal Ingredient: as for the managing the Cacao Nut, Dr. Stubbs, and Mr. Hughes, have publisht most excellent instructions, how you must peel, dry, beat and searce it very carefully, before you beat it up into a mass with other simples: as for the great quantity of Sugar which is commonly put in, it may destroy the Native and Genuine temper of the Chocolate, Sugar being such a corrosive salt, and such a Hypocritical Enemy to the Body. Simon Pauli (a Learned Dane) thinks Sugar to be one cause of our English Consumptions; and Dr. Willis blames it as one cause of our Universal Scurvy's: therefore when Chocolate produces any ill effects, they may be often imputed to the great superfluity of its Sugar, which often fills up half its Composition. For preparing the Drink of Chocolate, you may observe the following measures. Take of the mass of Chocolate, cut into small pieces, one ounce, of Milk and Water well boyld
Sect. III. of CHOCOLATE.

boy'd together, of each half a pint, one yolk of an Egg well beaten, mix them together, let them boil but gently, till all is dissolved, stirring them often together with your Mollinet, or Chocolet Mill; afterwards pour it into your Dishes, and into every Dish put one spoonful of Sack.

As for the vertues and effects of the Cacao Nut, or Chocolate, all the American Travellers have written such Panegyricks, and so many Experimental Observations, that I should but degrade this Royal Liquor, if I should offer at any; yet I think two or three Remarks upon it cannot be unsuitable to this little History: several of these curious Travellers, and Physicians, do agree in this, that the Cacao Nut has a wonderful faculty of quenching thirst, allaying Heetick heats, of nourishing and fatning the Body. Mr. Gage acquaints us, that he drank Chocolate in the Indies two or three times every day for twelve years together, and he scarce knew what any Disease was in all that time, he growing very fat: some object it is too oily and grotts, but then the bitterness of the Nut makes amends, carrying the other off by strengthening of the Bowels. Mr. Hughes informs us, that he liv'd at Sea for some Months of nothing but Chocolate, yet neither his strength, nor flesh were diminished: he says our English Seamen are very greedy of it when they come into any Indian Port, and soon get plump countenances by the use of it. Mr. Hughes himself grew very fat in Jamaica by the vertue of the Cacao Nut; so he judges it most proper for Lean, Weak, and Consumptive Complexions: it may be proper for some breeding Women, and those persons that are Hypocondriacal, and Melancholly. The industrious Dr. Mundy gives a notable example of the effect of Chocolate, he says, that he knew a Man in a desperate Consumption, who took a great fancy for Chocolate, and his Wife out of com plaisance drank it often with him: the consequence was
this, the Husband recover'd his health, and his Wife brought afterwards to Bed of three Sons at one Birth.

The great use of Chocolate in Venery, and for supplying the Testicles with a Baltam, or a Sap, is so ingeniously made out by one of our Learned Countrymen already, that I dare not presume to add any thing after so accomplisht a Pen; though I am of an opinion, that I might treat of the Subject without any immodesty, or offence. Gerson the Grave Roman Calivist, has writ de Pollutione Nocturna, and some have defended Fornication in the Popish Nunneries; Hysterical fits, Hypocondriacal Melancholy, Love Passions, Consumptive Pinings away, and Spermatical Fevers, being instances of the necessity hereof, natural instinct pointing out the Cure: We cannot but admire the great prudence of Moses, who severely Prohibited, that there should be no Whore amongst the Daughters of Israel, yet that most wise Legislator took great care for their timely Marriage: upon these very accounts the Calvists defend the Protestant Clergy in their Marriages. And Adam is commanded in Paradise to Encrease and Multiply, therefore I hope this little excursion is pardonable, being so adequate to this Treatise of Chocolate; which if Rachel had known, she would not have purchas'd Mandrakes for Jacob. If the Amorous and Martial Turk should ever taste it, he would despise his Opium. If the Grecians and Arabians had ever try'd it, they would have thrown away their Wake-Robins, and their Cuckow-Pinches; and I do not doubt, but you London Gentlemen, do value it above all your Cutlifes and Toilets, your Mushaws, Bononia Sausages, your Cock, or Lamb-ronces, your Sows, your Ketchups and Carcasses, your Cambrides, and your Whities of Eggs, are not to be compared to our noble Indian: therefore you must be very courageous and favourable to this little Pamphlet, who tells you most faithful Observations.
SECT. III. of CHOCOLATE.

The industrious Author of the Vimetum Britannicum makes a Quære, whether the Kernel of the Walnut may not supply the defect of the Cacao, if well Ground. Dr. Grew thinks, that for those that drink Chocolate at Coffee-Houses without any Medicinal respect, there is no doubt, but that of Almonds finely beaten, and mixed with a due proportion of Spices, and Sugar, may be made as pleasant a Drink as the best Chocolate.
THE
Natural History
OF
TOBACCO.

SECT. IV.

TOBACCO is reckon'd by the best Herbalists to be a Species, or sort of Henbane, proper to the American Regions, as Dodonaeus and Simon Pauli; yet some Botanists will have it a Native of Europe, and reduce it to several of our Classes: but I will not trouble you with this Controversie, only we may take notice, that Thevet did first bring the seed of Tobacco into France, though Nicot the French Ambassador in Portugal (from whom it is call'd Nicotiana) was the first that sent the Plant it self into his own Country. Hernandez de Toledo (who Travell'd America by the Command of Philip II.) having supply'd Spain and Portugal with it before. Sir Francis Drake got the Seed in Virginia, and was the first that brought it into England; yet some give Sir Walter Rawleigh the honour of it, since which time it has thriven very well in
in our English Soil: a great quantity of it grows yearly in several Gardens about Westminster, and in other parts of Middlesex. It is planted in great plenty in Gloucester, Devonshire, and some other Western Countries; his Majesty sending every year a Troop of Horse to destroy it, lest the Trade of our American Plantations should be incommodeed thereby: yet many of the London Apothecaries make use of English Tobacco in their Shops, notwithstanding the vulgar Opinion that this Herb is a Native of America, and foreign to Europe: yet Libavius assures us, that it grows naturally in the famous Hercynian Forrest of Germany. If this was true, we would no longer call it Tobacco from the Island of Tobago. The names of it are so various, as they would glut the most hungry Reader. The Americans style it Picielt; in Nova Francia, Petum; in Hispaniola, Cozolba; in Virginia, Oppuyoc; at Rome, Herba Sanda Crucis; in some parts of Italy, Herba Medica; in France, Herba Regine, as you may read in Magnenus and Neander: but let it be of what name or kind it will, I am confident, that it is of the poisonous sort, for it Intoxicates, Inflames, Vomits, and Purges; which Operations are common to poisonous Plants, as to Poppeys, Nightshades, Hemlock's, Monks' hood, Spurges, and Hellebores, that will produce the like effects: besides, every one knows that the Oyl of Tobacco is one of the greatest Poisons in nature, a few drops of it falling upon the tongue of a Cat, will immediately throw her into Convulsions, under which she will die. This Dr. Willis assures us to be true; the experiment succeeded, when it was try'd before the Royal Society, as the Learned Dr. Grew has affirmed: besides, I can speak it upon my own certain knowledge, having kill'd several Animals with a few drops of this Oyl. Yet that most sagacious Italian, Francisco Redi, observes very well, that the Oyl of Tobacco kills not all Animals, neither
does it dispatch those, it kills, in the same space of time; there is a great difference between the Tobacco of Brazil, and that of St. Christophers, as to this effect: Varino and Brazil tobacco being almost of the same quality and operation, whereas that of St. Christophers, Terra Nova, Nieca, St. Martin, have very different effects.

If we run over those Countries where Tobacco is made use of, we may observe the various manners of using it; some Americans will mix it with a Powder of Shells, to chew it, salivating all the time, which they fancy does refresh them in their Journeys and Labours: others in New Spain will dawb the ends of Reeds with the Gum, or Juice of Tobacco, and setting them on fire, will suck the smoak to the other end. The Virginians were observ'd to have Pipes of Clay before ever the English came there, and from those Barbarians we Europeans have borrow'd our mode and fashion of smoaking. The Moors and Turks have no great kindnes for Tobacco; yet when they do smoak, their Pipes are very long, made of Reeds, or Wood, with an earthen head. The Irishmen do most commonly powder their Tobacco, and snuff it up their Nostrils, which some of our English-men do, who often chew, and swallow it; I know some Persons that do eat every day some ounces of Tobacco without any sensible alteration: frome whence we may learn, that use and custom will tame, and naturalize the most fierce and rugged Poison, so that it will become civil and friendly to the body. We read of a French Ambassador, that being in England, was so indispos'd, that he could never sleep; upon which he would often devour whole Ounces of Opium without being concern'd: and the Turks are often observ'd to swallow great Lumps of it, a tenth part of which would kill those that were not accustomed to Opiates. I know a Woman in this City, that being us'd to take both the Hellebores, will often swallow whole
whole Scruples of them without the least motion, or operation, so that custom and conversation will make the fiercest creature familiar.

As for the Culture, Harvest, Preparation, and Trafick of Tobacco, I will recommend you to Neander, where, if you are curious, you may meet with satisfaction. I cannot omit one Story out of Monardus, who tells us, that the Indian Priests being always consulted about the events of War, do burn the Leaves of Tobacco, and sucking into their mouths the smoak by a Reed, or Pipe, do presently fall into a Trance, or Extatie, and as soon as ever they come out of it, they discover to the Indians all the secret Negotiation, which they have had with the great Damon, always delivering some ambiguous answer.

As for the qualities, nature, and uses of Tobacco, they may be very considerable in several cases and circumstances; though King James himself has both Writ, and Disputed very warmly against it at Oxford, and Simon Pauli has Publish'd a very Learned Book against it. Some Anatomists tell us most terrible Stories of footy Brains, and black Lungs, which have been seen in the Dissections of Dead Bodies, which when Living had been accustomed to Tobacco. We read that America the Fourth did forbid the use of it over all the Turkish Dominion, under the most severe Penalties; the Turks having an opinion amongst them, that Tobacco will make them Effeminate, and Barren, unfit for War, and Procreation; though some think there is a Popish Infirmity, to obstruct the sale of it in the Eastern Countries, and to prevent the Christians from establishing any considerable Traffick from to men, as Charles, and Cromwelly, which perhaps may be one reason, why the Great Duke of Magog has threatened to punish them.
those Merchants, who offer to sell any Tobacco in his Countries. Scach Abas (the Great Sophy of Persia) Leading an Army against the Cham of Tartary, made Proclamation, that if any Tobacco was found in the Custody of any Soldier, he should be burnt alive, together with his Tobacco. Yet for all this it may be very beneficial to Mankind, as you will conclude from what does follow.

Dr. Willis recommends Tobacco to Soldiers, because it may supply the want of Victuals, and make them insensible of the dangers, fatigues, and hardships, which do usually attend Wars and Armies; besides, it is found to Cure Mangy, and Ulcerous Diseases, which are frequent in Camps. I know a curious Lady in the North, that does very great feats in Sores and Ulcers by a Preparation of Tobacco. Our Learned and most Experienc'd Countryman, Mr. Boyle, does highly commend Tobacco Clysters in the most violent Colick pains, which are often Epidemical in Cities, and Camps. The Renowned Hartman extols the Water of Tobacco against Agues: And the curious Dr. Grew found the success of the Oyl of it in the Tooth-ach, a Lint being dip'd in it, and put into the Tooth. The effects of Tobacco has been very good in some violent pains of the Head; as some thousands have experimented: As for the daily smoaking of it, the state and circumstances of your Body must be the best guide, and rule; if your complexion be lean, hot, and dry, it is an argument against it, but if cold, moist, and humoral, subject to Catarrhs, Rheums, and Pains, then there may be a temptation to venture upon it, so every man must consult his own temper, and the experience of others.
Sect. IV. of TOBACCO.

A modern French Author has writ a peculiar Tract of Tobacco, wherein he commends it in Convulsions, in pains, and for bringing on sleep; he extols the Oyl of it in Curing Deafness, being injected into the Ear in a convenient vehicle, also against Gouty and Scorbutical pains of the Joints, being appli'd in a liniment. A Lixivium of Tobacco often prevents the falling off of the hair, and is famous in Curing the Farcy, or Leprosie of Cattel.
The USE of JUNIPER AND ELDER-BERRIES. IN OUR Publick-Houses.

THESE two Berries are so Celebrated in many Countries, and so highly recommended to the World by several famous Writers, and Practitioners, that they need not desire any Varnish, or Argument from me. The simple Decoctions of them sweetned with a little fine Sugar-Candy will afford Liquors so pleasant to the Eye, so grateful to the Palate, and so beneficial to the Body, that I cannot but wonder after all these Charms, they have not as yet been Courted, and Usher'd into our Publick Houses; if they should once appear on the Stage, I am confident, that both the Whig and the Tory, would agree about them far better than have done about the Medal and Mushroom: nay, the very Cynick and Stoick himself, would fall in Love with the
The Use of JUNIPER, &c.

the Beauty, and extraordinary Vertues of these Berries, which are so common, and cheap, that they may be purchas'd for little or nothing; one Ounce of the Berry well cleansed, bruis'd, and mash'd, will be enough for almost a Pint of Water; when they are boyl'd together, the Vessel must be carefully stopt: after the boyling is over, one spoonful of Sugar Candy may be put in.

The Juniper-tree grows wild upon many Hills in Surrey, and Oxfordshire, and upon Juniper-Hill near Hildersham in Cambridgshire; besides, in several other parts of England: The Berries are most commonly gather'd about August. The Astrological Botanists advise us to pull them, when the Sun is in Virgo.

The Juniper-Berry is of so great reputation in the Northern Nations, that they use it, as we do Coffee and Thee, especially the Laplanders, who do almost adore it. Simon Pauli (a Learned Dane) assures us, that these Berries have perform'd wonders in the Stone, which he did not learn from Books, or common Fame, but from his own observation and experience; for he produces two very notable examples, that being tormented with the Stone, did find incredible success in the use of these Berries: and if my memory does not fail me, I have heard our most ingenious, and famous Dr. Troutbeck, commend a Medicine prepar'd of them in this Distemper. Besides Schroder knew a Nobleman of Germany, that freed himself from the intolerable symptoms of the Stone by the constant use of these Berries: Ask any Physician about them, and he will bestow upon them a much finer Character than my rude Pencil can draw. The Learned Mr. Evelyn will tell you what great kind-nesses he has done to his Poor sick Neighbours, with a Preparation of Juniper-Berries, who is pleas'd to honour them with the Title of the Forrester's Panacea; he extols them in the Wind Colick, and many other
Distempers. Do but consult Bauhinus, and Schroder, the first being the most exact Herbal, the other the most faithful and elaborate Dispensatory, that ever has been publish'd; and you will find great commendations of these Berries in Dropsies, Gravel. Coughs. Consumptions, Gout, Stoppage of the monthly Courses, in Epilepsies, Palsies, Lethargies, in which there are often an ill appetite, bad digestions, and obstructions.

Take one spoonful of the Spirit of Juniper-Berries, four grains of the Salt of Juniper, three drops of the Oyl of Juniper-Berries well rectified; mix them all together, drink them Morning and Night in a Glass of White-wine, and you will have no contemptible Medicine in all the aforementioned Diseases.

Now it is probable, that you have both the Spirit, Salt, and Oyl of this Berry in a simple Decoction of it, provided it be carefully and skillfully manag'd. If this will not satisfie, do but read Benjamin Scarffius, and Joh. Michael, who have Publish't in Germany two several Books of the Juniper, and you may meet with far more persuasive arguments, than I can pretend to offer you.

The Elder Tree grows almost every where, but it most delights in Hedges, Orchards, and other shady places, or on the moist Banks of Rivulets and Ditches, unto which 'tis thrust by the Gardeners, lest by its Luxury, and importunate increase yearly it should possess all their ground. We write here of the Domestick, common Elder, not of the Mountain, the Water, or Dwarf Elder, ours in figure is like the Ash; the Leaves resemble those of a Walnut Tree, but less; in the top of the Branches, and Twigs, there spring sweet and crisped umbels, swelling with white odoriferous Flowers (in June before St. John's Eve) which by their fall give place to a many branched Grape, first green, then ruddy, last of a black, dark, Purple Colour, succulent and tumid with its winish
The Use of JUNIPER

winish Liquor: of all the wild Plants 'tis first covered Joh. Bauhin. with Leaves, and last uncloathed of them. It flourishes in May, June, July, but the Berries are not ripe till August.

As for the qualities, and vertues of Elder-Berries, I need say no more, but that Mr. Ray has given a great encomium of them; our Learned Dr. Needham commending them in Dropsies, and some Feavers: and I have been inform'd, that the ingenious Dr. Croon has extoll'd a Spirit of Elder-Berries in an Epidemical intermittent Feaver. Schroder says, they do peculiarly respect some Diseases, attributed to the Womb. Mr. Evelyn is so bountiful to his poor Forrester, as to assure him, that if he could but learn the Medicinal Properties of the Elder Tree, he might fetch a Remedy from every Hedg, either for Sicknes, or Wound: the fame curious Gentleman takes notice, how prevalent these Berries are in scorbutick Distempers, and for the prolongation of Life (so famous is the Story of Naander.) I have heard some praise them in Bloody Fluxes, and other Diseases of the Bowels; also in several Distempers of the Head, as the Falling Sicknes, Megrims, Palsies, Lethargies: they are said likewise to promote the monthly Inundations of Women, and to destroy the heat of an Erysipelas, for which the Flowers themselves are highly Celebrated by Simon Pauli, who experimented them upon himself with wonderful success. I could produce several cases out of the best Physical Writers, as Forelius, Riverius, Rualandus, &c. where these Berries have acted their parts, even to admiration; but if you are curious, and inquisitive after the qualities and nature of them, I will recommend a Learned German, Martyn Blochwitz, to your reading, where you may entertain your self with great variety: Yet I have one thing still to give notice of, that the same Medicine may be prepar'd out of the Spirit, Oyl, and Salt of this Berry, as you have been taught
taught before to make out of the Juniper-Berry, but you may obtain them all in a simple Decoction, if it be well manag'd.

You have read here the great use of these two Berries, that are more universally agreeable to all tempers, palates and cases, than perhaps any other two simple Medicines, which are commonly known amongst us; so that several Persons being under ill habits of Body, and upon the Frontiers of some lingring Diseases, cannot but desire to drink them, when they have occasion to resort to Publick-Houses: yet for all this, my poor advice will certainly meet with that Fate, which does attend almost every thing in the World, that is, Laudatur ab his, culpatur ab illis; but it dreads most of all the Turkey, and East-India Merchant, who will condemn it in defence of their Coffee, and Thee, which have the honour of coming from the Levant, and China. Besides, I am afraid of a lash, or a frown from some young Ladies, and little Sparks, who scorn to eat, drink, or wear any thing, that comes not from France, or the Indies; they fancy poor England is not capable of bringing forth any commodity, that can be agreeable to their Grandeur, and Gallantry, as though Nature, and God Almighty, had curs'd this Island with the Production of such things, as are every way unsuitable to the Complexions, and Necessities of the Inhabitants: so we cannot but Repartee upon these A la mode Persons, that while they Worship so much only Foreign Creatures, they cannot but be wholly ignorant of those at home. His Excellency, the most Acute and Ingenious Ambassador from the Emperor of Fez, and Morocco, (who now resides amongst us) is reported to have advis'd his Attendants to see every thing, but admire nothing, lest they should seem thereby to disparage their own Country, and shew themselves ignorant of the great Rarities and Wonders of Barbary.
Poor contemptible Berries, fly hence to Smyrna, Bantam, or Mexico, then the Merchants would work through Storms and Tempests, through Fire and Water to purchase you, and at your Arrival here would proclaim your Vertues in all publick Assemblies; so true is that common saying, A Prophet is never valued in his own Country: The English Soyl is certainly influenced by some Pestilential Star, that blasts the credit of its Productions.
The WAY of Making

M U M,

WITH SOME

REMARKS

UPON THAT

LIQUOR.

IN the first place, I will give some instructions how to make Mum, as it is Recorded in the House of Brunswick, and was sent from thence to General Monk.

To make a Vessel of 63 Gallons, the Water must be first boyl'd to the Consumption of a third part, let it then beBrew'd according to Art with 7 Bushels of Wheat-Malt, one Bushel of Oat-Malt, and one Bushel of Ground Beans, and when it is Tun'd, let not the Hogshead be too much fill'd at first; when it begins to work, put to it of the inner Rind of the Firr three pounds, of the tops of Firr, and Birch, of each one pound, of Carduus Benedictus dried, three handfuls, Flowers of Rosa Solis, two handfuls,
Remaks upon MUM.

handfuls, of Burnet, Betony, Marjoram, Avens, Pennyroyal, Flowers of Elder, Wild Thyme, of each one handful and a half, Seeds of Cardamum bruised, three ounces, Bayberries bruised, one ounce, put the Seeds into the Vessel; when the Liquor hath wrought a while with the Herbs, and after they are added, let the Liquor work over the Vessel as little as may be, fill it up at last, and when it is stopped, put into the Hogshead ten new laid Eggs, the Shells not cracked, or broken: stop all close, and drink it at two years old, if carried by Water it is better. Dr. Aegidius Hoffman added Water Cresses, Brooklime, and Wild Parsley, of each six handfuls, with six handfuls of Horse Rhadish rasped in every Hogshead: it was observ'd that the Horse Rhadish made the Mum drink more quick than that which had none.

By the composition of Mum we may guess at the qualities, and properties of it, you find great quantities of the Rind, and tops of Firr in it; therefore if the Mum-makers at London are so careful, and honest, as to prepare this Liquor after the Brunswick fashion, which is the genuine and original way; it cannot but be very powerful against the breeding of Stones, and against all Scorbutick Distempers. When the Suedes carried on a War against the Muscovites, the Scurvy did so domineer amongst them, that their Army did languish, and moulder away to nothing, till once encamping near a great number of Firr Trees, they began to boil the tops of them in their Drink, which recover'd the Army even to a miracle; from whence the Suedes call the Firr the Scorbutick Tree at this very day. Our most renowned Dr. Walter Needham has observ'd the great success of these tops of Firr in the Scurvy, as Mr. Ray informs us; which is no great wonder, if we consider the Balsam, or Turpentine, (with which this Tree abounds) which proves so effectual in preserving even dead Bodies them-
Remarks upon MUM.

selves from putrefaction, and corruption; if my memory does not deceive me, I have heard Mr. Boyle, (the ornament, and glory of our English Nation) affirm, that the Oyl of Turpentine preserves Bodies from Putrefaction much better than the Spirit of Wine. The Firr being a principal ingredient of this Liquor, is so Celebrated by some modern Writers, that it alone may be sufficient to advance the Mum trade amongst us. Simon Pauli (a Learned Dane) tells us the great exploits of the tops of this Tree in freeing a great man of Germany from an inveterate Scurvy; every Physician will inform you, how proper they are against the breeding of Gravel, and Stones: but then we must be so exact, as to pull these tops in their proper Season, when they abound most with Turpentine, and Balsamick parts, and then they may make the Mum a proper Liquor in Genorrhæa's; besides the Eggs may improve its faculty that way: yet I will not conceal what I think the Learned Dr. Merret affirms in his Observations upon Wines, that those Liquors, into which the Shavings of Firr are put, may be apt to create pains in the Head; but still it is to be confess'd, that the Firr cannot but contribute much to the vigor and preservation of the Drink.

By the variety of its Malt, and by the ground Beans, we may conclude, that Mum is a very hearty and strengthening Liquor; some Drink it much, because it has no Hops, which they fancy do spoil our English Ales, and Beers, uthering in Infections; nay, Plagues amongst us. Thomas Bartholine exclaims so fiercely against Hops, that he advises us to mix any thing with our Drink rather than them: he recommends Sage, Tamarisk, tops of Pine, or Firr, instead of Hops, the daily use of which in our English Liquors is said to have been one cause, why the Stone is grown such a common Disease amongst us Englishmen: yet Captain Graunt in
Remarks upon Mum.

his curious Observations upon the Bills of Mortality, observes, that fewer are afflicted with the Stone in this present Age, than there were in the Age before, though far more Hops have been us'd in this City of late than ever.

As for Eggs in the Composition of Mum they may contribute much to prevent its growing sower, their shells sweetning Vinegar, and destroying Acids, for which reason they may be proper in restoring some decay'd Liquors, if put whole into the Vessel. Dr. Stubbs in some curious Observations made in his Voyage to Jamaica, assures us, that Eggs put whole into the Vessel will preserve many Drinks even to admiration in long Voyages: the Shells, and Whites will be devour'd and lost, but the Yolks left untouched.

Dr. Willis prescribes Mum in several Chronical Distempers, as Scurvies, Dropsies, and some sort of Consumptions. The Germans, especially the Inhabitants of Saxony, have so great a Veneration for this Liquor, that they fancy their Bodies can never decay, or pine away, as long as they are Lin'd, and Embalm'd with so powerful a preserver; and indeed, if we consider the frame, and complexions of the Germans in general, they may appear to be living Mummies. But to conclude all in a few words, if this Drink call'd Mum, be exactly made according to the foregoing instructions, it must needs be a most excellent alterative Medicine, the ingredients of it being very rare and choice simples, there being scarce any one Disease in Nature, against which some of them are not prevalent, as Betony, Marjoram, Thyme. In Diseases of the Head; Birch, Burnet, Water-Cresses, Brooklime, Horse-Radish in the most inveterate Scurvies, Gravels, Coughs, Consumptions, and all obstructions. Avens, and Cardamom Seeds for cold weak Stomachs. Carduus Benedictus, and Elder Flowers in intermittent
mittent Feavers. Bayberries and Penny-Royal, in Distempers attributed to the Womb. But it is to be fear'd, that several of our Londoners are not so honest, and curious, as to prepare their Mum faithfully, and truly; if they do, they are so happy as to furnish, and stock their Country with one of the most useful Liquors under the Sun, it being so proper, and effectual in several lingring Distempers, where there is a depravation, and weakness of the Blood and Bowels.

There still remains behind a strong, and general objection, that may perhaps fall upon this little puny Pamphlet, and crush it all to pieces, that is, the Histories are too short, and imperfect; to which I have only this to answer, Ars longa, vita brevis, a perfect Natural History of the least thing in World, cannot be the Work of one Man, or scarce one Age, for it requires the Heads, Hands, Studies, and Observations of many, well Compar'd and Digested together: therefore this is rather an Essay, or Topick, for men to reason upon, when they meet together at Publick-Houses, and to encourage them to follow the example of Adam, who being in the state of Innocence did contemplate of all the Creatures that were round about him in Paradise, but after the Fall, and the Building of a City, the Philosopher turn'd Politician.
Postscript.

Liquors and Drinks are of such general use, and esteem in all the habitable parts of the World, that a word or two concerning them cannot be improper, or unwelcom.

First the Saps and Juices of Trees will afford many pleasant and useful Liquors. The Africans and Indians prepare their famous Palm Wine (which they call Sura, or Toddy) out of the sap of the wounded Palm Tree, as we do our Birch Wine in England out of the tears of the pierced Birch Tree, which is celebrated in the Stone and Scurvy. So the Sycamore and Walnut being wounded will weep out their Juices, which may be fermented into Liquors: In the Molucca's the Inhabitants extract a Wine out of a Tree called Laudan.

Fruits and Berries yield many noble and necessary Liquors; every Nation abounds with various Drinks by the diversity of their Fruits and Vegetables. England with Sider, Perry, Cherry, Currant, Gooseberry, Raspberry, Mulberry, Blackberry, and Strawberry Wine. France, Spain, Italy, Hungary and Germany, produce great variety of Wines from the different species, and natures of their Grapes and Soils. In Jamaica and Brazil they make a very delicious Wine out of a Fruit called Ananas, which is like a Pine Apple, not inferior to Malt Wine. The Chinese make curious Drinks out of their Fruits; so do the Brazilians, and Southern Americans; as from their Coco, Acajou, Pacobi, their Unni, or Mar-tilla's.
POSTSCRIPT.

We may note here, that all the Juices of Herbs, Fruits, Seeds, and Roots will work, and ferment themselves into intoxicating Liquors, out of which Spirits, and Brandies may be extracted, most Nations under the Sun has their drunken Liquors and Compounds; the Turk his Maslack, the Persians their Bangue, the Indians their Pulo, their Rum, their Arak, and Punch. The Arabians, Turks, Chinese, Tartars, and other Eastern Countries do make inebriating Liquors out of their Corn, and Rice: some rather than not be Drunk will swallow Opium, Dutroy, and Tobacco, or some other intoxicating thing, so great an inclination has Mankind to be exalted.

Pliny complains, that Drunkennes was the study of his time, and that the Romans and Parthians contended for the glory of excessive Wine Drinking. Historians tell us of one Novellius Torquatus, that went through all the honourable degrees of Dignity in Rome, wherein the greatest Glory, and Honour he obtain'd, was for the Drinking, in the presence of Tiberius, three Gallons of Wine at one Draught, before ever he drew his breath, and without being any ways concern'd. Athenaeus says, that Melanthius wish'd his own Neck as long as a Crane's, that he might be the longer a tasting the pleasure of Drinks; yet what he reports of Lasyrtes is wonderful, that he never drank any thing, yet notwithstanding Urin'd as others do. The same famous Author takes notice, that the great Drinkers us'd to eat Coleworts to prevent Drunkennes, neither are some men of our days much inferiour to those celebrated Antients. The Germans commonly Drink whole Tankards, and Ell Glasses at a Draught, adoring him that Drinks fairly, and most, and hating him that will not pledg them. The Dutch Men will salute their Guests with a Pail, and a Dish, making Hogheads of their Bellies. The Polander thinks him the bravest fellow, that Drinks most Healths, and car-
POSTSCRIPT.

ries his Liquor best, being of opinion, that there is as much Valour in Drinking, as Fighting. The Russians, Suedes, and Danes, have so naturaliz'd Brandy, Aqua Vitæ, Beer, Mum, &c. that they usually Drink our English Men to Death, so that the most ingenious Author of the Vinetum Britannicum concludes, that temperance (relatively speaking) is the Cardinal Vertue of the English.

It is very wonderful what Mr. Ligon, and other American Travelers relates of the Cassava Root, how out of it, the Americans do generally make their Bread, and common Drink, called Parranow; yet that Root is known to be a great Poyson if taken raw: their Drink call'd Mobby is made of Potatoe's. But we will conclude all with Virgil, who speaking of the many Liquors in his time, says, Sed neque quam multæ species, nec non in quæ sunt est Numerus.

FINIS.
A Help to English History, containing a Succession of all the Kings of England, the English Saxons, and the Britains; the Kings and Princes of Wales, the Kings and Lords of Man, the Isle of Wight: As also the Dukes, Marquesses, Earls and Bishops therein. With the Description of the places from whence they had their Titles; Together with the Names, and Ranks of the Viscounts, Barons and Baronets of England. By P. Heylyn, D.D.

Monumenta Westmonasteriensia: Or an Historical Account of the Original, Increase, and Present State of St. Peter's, or the Abby Church of Westminster. With all the Epitaphs, Inscriptions, Coats of Arms, and Achievements of Honour belonging to the Tombs and Grave-stones: Together with the Monuments themselves faithfully described and set forth. By H.K. of the Inner Temple, Gent.
