our own people in england, and pay three times the price for it; they make the return of all their indufry and labour to us; this is the center of their wealth, the place where they lay it up, and where their 'offerity fpend it; therefore to burthen them, is to ruin the molt profitable and molt indutrious part of our own body. but 'tis objected, that though this be true, it does not appear that laying a duty on their goods here can be a burthen or ruin to their trade, it being rais'd here not there, and paid by the importer, and to him again by the retailer, and at laft by the conquerer, in the prices of the goods; all taxes in general being up to a to be paid by the laft buyer. this were a good argument, if fad experience had not made it app. ar to be a mistake; and to convince tho who are of another opinion, 'twill be neceffary a little to examine the hiftory of the trade, and of the laft duty imposed upon it. our sugar trade, in general, is but a young manufacture, and dates its original within the memory of some persons now living, and is, perhaps, the greatest import'd trade, and the molt profitable to neland, that is, or ever was in the world. the firt cause of its rule was from the indirection of the portuguese, who preluming upon their being mafers of the sugar-trade in the buffalo, lau a heavy tax on their own sugar, which encourage'd out ifland of banbadoes, to whom firt the way of making of sugar was discover'd, to run into the trade; and it has been in vain that the 'ortuguefe faw their error, and have fine endeavour'd to retrieve it. 'tis is to direct an example, 'tis needles to argue it. and whoever knows the sugar-trade, cannot be ignorant, that it is not impoffible to be loft by the fame error by which it was gain'd. in the reign of the late king james an additional duty was laid upon sugar, notwithstanding all the remonfrances of the traders and planters to the contrary; and yet even then nothing but the pretence that the duty wou'd not affect the planters but iye on the confumer, with a promife of his majesty to remit it if it prov'd otherwise, could make it feem tolerable. but when time demonstrated the fad effect it had on the planter, and they applied for relief, they were anver'd, 'twas an unman nery thing to put his majesty in mind of his promife. 'this true, if sugar was planted and cur'd in england, the duty might iye on the confumer, as in other cafts it does; but here the cafe differs exceedingly. the planter is the seller at our market, the merchant here is but the faktor; when the planter ships his sugars for england he configns them to his faktor to be sold for him, and generally draws bills upon his faktor for as much as he suppofes the produce to be, and fometimes more. upon laing the duty abovementioned, the experiment was made; the faktor had two ways to manage the sugars and bills, and no more. 1. to accept the bills afbolutely. or, 2. conditionally. if he accepted the bills afbolutely, he would then fell the goods at the market, let it be what it would, to enable him to comply with the payment; and if the produce did not make it good, the planter remain'd daktor to the balance, fo the lofs return'd upon him. if he accepted the bills conditionally, that is, to pay when the goods are fold: if the goods did not fell in time, the bills went back profetfed, or elfe were noted, and lay here at intereft and charges. by both which the planter was a confiderable lofer both in money and reputation. the buyers here knowing too well thefe methods of their trade, and that of neceffity the faktor muft fell for the reafons aforefaid, refufed to advance in price notwithstanding the duty, and withheld buying by a general confort, and the confequence foon anfiver'd their expeetation, for the faktor were forced to fell at the old price to fupport the credit both of themefaves and their principal. but fome of the moft confiderable faktor being willing to try all poffible ways for their employers, fhipp'd off great quantities for holland, hlhowborough, and other parts, but thofe markets being not able to take of the quantities, and the bills till following the goods, to enable the exporter to pay the planters bills, as above, the very fame thing follow'd abroad, the goods were forced to be fold to raife the money, and the lofs fell till upon the poor planter. thus, whoever pays the money, the planter bears the lofs, and is left in debt, and confequently undone; for 'tis quite another thing to be in debt in the weft indies than 'tis in england. that the planter is not able to bear the duty, at leaft, at this time, is the next thing to be proved, and that is as plain as the other. the war which has lafted now nine years, has been a general prejudice to all trade, but to the weft- india trade in particular: and in the weft indies, the islands of barbados and jamaica have been as it were deltint'd to be ruin'd, having befides the war had a complication of diftaters, as the dreadful earthquake, and the injurious of the negroes at jamaica, the lofs of three or four entire fleets from barbados, by diftater of weather and hurricanes, together with a diftemper brought amongst them by the men of war, little better than the plague, which fwept away great numbers of their inhabitants. alfo they have raifed forces, and fitted out ships at their own charge for feveral expeditions; and in fhort, befides their lofes at sea by the french, with the ruin of great part of jamaica, and st. chriftophers, by their defeents, have raifed larger taxes on their eftates than has been puid by us at home; by which means there is not half the sugar planted in the weft- indies that was be- fore the war. after