## 92 the voyage of domingo gonfales . 92 the voyage of domingo gonfales. iars; as that in a thousand years there is found neither thief nor whore-monger, for first there is no want of any thing neceffary for the ufe of man, food growing every where without labour, of all forts that can be defired. as for cloths, houfes, or whatever elfe a man may be fuppos'd to want, it is provided by their superiors, though not without fome labour, but vet fo eafy as if they did it for pleafure; again their females are all abfolute beauties, and by a feeret difpofition of nature, a man there having once known a woman never defires any other; murther was ever heard of amongst them, neither is it hardly poffible to be committed, for there can be no wou. made but what is cureable; yea they aflured me, and for my part i believe it, that though a mans head be cut off, yet if within three moous it be joined to the carcas again, and the juice of a certain herb there gro ing applied, it will be fo confolidated as the wounded party shall be perfetly cured. but the chief caufe of their good government is an excellent difpofition in the nature of the people, fo that all both oid and young hate all manner of vice and live in fuch love, peace, and amity as it feems to be another paradise; though it is true likewise that fome are of a better difpofition than others, which they differn immediately at their birth; and because it is an inviolable law amongst them that none shall be put to death,therefore perceiving by their stature or fome other figns who are like to be of a wicked and debauched humor, they fend them, i know not by what means, into the earth, and change them for other children, before they have either opportunity or ability to do amifs among them; but firft, they fay, they are fain to keep them there for fome time till the air of the earth alter: their colour like ours. their ordinary vent for them is a certain high hill in the north of ameri a, whofe people, i am apt to believe, are wholly ## to the world in the moon. 93 wholly defenced from them, both in regard of their colour, and their continual ufe of tobacco, which the lunars or moon men finouk exceedingly, the place abounding much with moifture, together with the pleafure they take therein,and fome other refpefts teo long to rehearfe: sometimes, though but feldom, they miftake their aim and fall upon europe, afia, or africa. i remember fome years fince i read certain florles tending to confirm what is related by thefe lunars, and efpecially one chapter of neubigenfis. inig mondear in his defcription of nova granata. alfy jofeph defia de carana in his hilory of mexico if m memory fail not, recount what will make my report more credible; but i value not teftimonies. if you inquire how jufice is executed,alas what need is there of exemplary punishment where no offenders are committed; neither need they any lawyers,or there is no contention,the feeds whereof when they b:gin to fprout are by the wildom of the next superior pluckt up by the roots. and as little want is there of phyficians, they never farfeit themefives; the air is alwa's pure and temperate, neither is there any caufe of ficknefs, i could never hear of any that w. re diftempered. but the tim: affgn'd them by nature being fpent, they dye without the leaf pain, or rather ceafe to live, as a candle does to give light when what nourifies it is confumad. i was once at the departure of one of them, and was much furpriz'd that notwithstanding the happy life he liv'd, and the multitude of friends and children he thould forfake, yet as foon as he underflood his end to approach, he prepar'd a great feaft, and inviting all whom he efteem'd, exhorts them, to be merry and'rejoyce with him, finee the time was come he "thould now leave the counterfeit pleafures of that world, and be made partaker of a1 true joy and "perfect happiness; i did not fo much admire e his