# a letter from jamaica, to a friend in london, concerning kid-napping. sir, yours found me a little indifpos'd; but yet i made the beft enquiry my health and opportunity would give me leave to anfwer your defires. the relation you have fen me of the great abnfe in the spiritng away of children, makes a very fad story; and muft needs be a lamentable grief to their parents that have loft them. you should have done well to have fent me the names of thofe that are miffing; or if you think fit to have me look any further into this bufinefs, pray let me receive your further directions at your beft leifure. we are not without apprehenfions here in this place for the divifions in england; i wifh we may yet live to meet again in comfort and prace. the paper which i fend you here enclofed, is all i was able to do in fo thort a time; but upon the truth of it you may depend. i do not know but you may find in this lift fome unhappy people that you look for; and it would bew ell if you made a publication of it in one of the common news papers: mr. janeway, or mr. curtis, i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be fo notified, as that any of thofe good people that have loft their children, may underftand whither to repair for fa- tisfaction. if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your felt to mr. john wilmore in venem-freet, who is a planter himtelf, and knows all the tricks of thofe rafcals. beides that, he is a man of bufinefs in the city, a large acquaintance, a true proftant, and (if i am not miftaken) a common-council-man. he is very induftrious and charitable befide; and if there thould be occasion, he is as likely to aflift you as any man i know: tho it were to go as far as the hope upon the errand, to fave a poor child from want, and slavery. i need fay no more to you, than that if you have his friendship, he can tell you all the ways of the tra- pan: how they take up children, invigle them away, and the conveieances they have for the concealing of them. thefe kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compaffion; that they could not get quit of him, or perfuade him to come back it may be, tho he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you muft get a difcreet juffice to examine the mater; fo the reft i leave to your difcretion. little will takes to his bufinefs very well; and i hope his friends will have comfort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance in your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults; for i muft immediately take my leave of you, and subfcribe my felt your affectionate kinfman and servant, t. m. if any perfon named in the following lift, thall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be left with mr. walter davis, in amen-corner, who will give directions how to make a further enquiry. ## the number of wbites. 1. fofepb ruffel. 2. william burne. 3. george shallitoe. 4. urban rony. 5. andrew reddal. 6. william polliard. 7. fohn brown. 8. richard seviitor. 8. richard seviitor. 9. james durham. 10. george french. 11. thomas woodcock. the number of wbites that dyed in my time. thomas hughes. peter peterjon. fohn gwartwite. thomas davies. samuel hodgey. sold in my time. thomas martin. thomas barber. free. william ward. richard barret. total of the wbites — 11. loft at law with fountain. famaica, decemb. 30. 1681.