## preferatives against the plague. 26 preferatives against the plague. perficial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, as before is taught you, and fo apply to the place fome ftrong maturative, and atractive plaiiter,or catapfame, as hereafter shall be hewed you. if the greif be in the head or throte, then apply ventofes to the neck: ifit be in the emunctuaries of the heart, then apply them to the houlders: if in the emunctuaries of the liver, then apply them to the buttocks or thighs, now when this is done, either by phlebetomy, or ventofes, then within an hour or two at the most after it, you must give the fick fome good cordial medicine, which hath power to comfort the heart, refit the venomous matter, and also procure fweat, whereof out of the following you may make choice as you liit. an excellent good powder to expell the plague, which also pro- zokethfweat. r. roots of genitian, bittamie, petafitis, ana, 3. i. roots of tormentil, dittamie, ana, 3. iii. red sanders 3. f. fine pearle of both forts, ana, 3. i. fine bolamoniack prepared, fine terra figillata, ana, 3. vi. rinds of citrons, red corrall, roots of zeddair, having of ebony, bone of a stags heart, ana, fix- teen graines: fragments of the five pretious tones, ana, 3. f. shaving of unicorns horn, succini, ana, 3. f. leaves of gold and silver, ana, one and half in number, make all the fine in power, every one feverall by himfelf, and then mix them all together, and give thereto 3. i. or 3. iii. more or leffe as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabios, or carduus benedictus water two or three ounces, whereunto you must adde a little sirrup of lemons, or four citrons, and give it warm, the bolamoniack must be pounded fmall, then washed in scabios water, and fo dryed. another good powder. r. leaves of dittander, called dittami crtici, roots of tormentil, bittamie, pimpernell, genian, zeddair, ana, 3. i. terra itamina, alloes cicatrina, fine myrrh, rinds of four citrons, ana, ## preferatives against the plague. ana 3 i. maftick, saffron, ana, halfa drachm. bolarmoniack prepared as beforefaid, 3. ii. all thefe must be made in fine powder, and fo mixt together, you may give two fcrpples, or one drachm thereof with any of the aforefaid wavers. a good opiat to expell veneme, and provokef fweat. conferve of the floures of furrage, buglofs, violetts, bit- tanie, ana, 3. ii. venus triade 3. ii. red terra figillata, terra itamina, mithridate, ana 3. i. shaving of ebonie, and harts- horn, orient pearls, roots of tormentil, ana 3 i. shaving of unicorns horn, root of angelica, ana half a drachm. sirrup of the juice of fmall sorrell and buglofs, ana, fo much as fhall fuffice. mix all thefe together in the form of an opiat, then take of the fame opiat, one drachm and half. scabios water, balm water, ana 3 ii. diflofve the opiat in the waters, and drink it warm, then walk a little upon it, and then goe to bed and fweat. another excellent good means to expell the venem, and procure fweat. take a great white onyon, and pick out the coar or middle of him, then fill the hole with good venue triacle, or andromachus triacle, and aqua vita, then ftop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and roft him in the hot afhes until the be fof, then firen it ffromly through a cloth, and give it the fick to drinke, and the reft that remains, pound it fmall, and apply it to the fore, and fweat upon it. now when he hath taken any of the aforefaid cordials, if he chance to vomit it up again, then wafh his mouth with rofewater and vinegar, and thes give him more of the fame again, which muft be proportioned according to the quantitie vomited, for if all were vomited, then give fo much more: (ifleffe) then according to the quantity vomited, and if he vomit that alfo, then give him more, and fo continue it to h h h