treafon, and more barbarous and cruell then the maffacre of france, being deftroyers of their own liberties, and fup- planters and overtthrowers of the fame religion that they themselves pretend to profeife. the agreement between the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about cleven of the clock on the tueday night, a loufe neere unto froome gate was to be blowne up; which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onfet; who against that hour were to draw downe unto the city, and prince robert with his army came fonigh as the gallows: a ball at st. johns church on a hill above the gates was to roule, another bell at st. michaels church upon the hill above the green was to ring, to give notice to the malignants of this towne to rife in an infant, sufficient parties were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without opposition; for that purpose there were in readineffe in the houfe of maffer george butcher of chriftmaffe fireet, a new made capitaine for this deffigne, about 160 armed men, and in the houfe of maffer robert yeomans (who was one of the sheriffs of this city the laft yere, foure and twenty men ready to put themelves in armes which there they had, the one to fup- rife the maine guard, the other, the guard at froome- gate, and to let in thefe bloud fucking chavaliers; two other bells were to toule at the fame time to give notice to the malignants to rife in all parts of the city. both monday and tueday, white peces of incle were given to divers, and to the better fort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their boofoms and hats for diftination, and all that had not the word charles, or thohe marks, were to be put to the fword, muthred and deftroyed, befides divers houfes in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were defigned to utter ruine and deftruation. i he bufineffe is not, as as yet fully examined, but this and much more is confeced by the principle and maine plotters of this wicked defigue: i want time to give you a perfect relation, you shall fpecdily have a fuller and better account, as foone as we have a little recovered our felves out of thefe difractions; for the prefeft, here is enough to fitire you up to joy with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodneffe and mercy to us, and to give god hisglory and prayfe for this wounderfull and gracious deliverance, that hath preferved fo many thousands of us that were innocent, and fold, and almost given up into the hands of thefe cruell and bloud-thirthy men. . the cheife ackors of this mischievous defigneiwere the aforefaid robert teomans, and george butcher, mr. john taylor, mr. colefone, and his brother, mr. fitzherbert, two colons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple, and captain col of st. augusfins, who with at leaft one hundred more a&ors and accenfories, ate already taken and impinfoned in the caftle, and hourely more are difcovered and fecured, many of them upon examination have confeffed the plot to be in manner as before is defcribed; and that threefcore famifief of men, women, and children were to be put to the fword, without quarter, given in upon a note. trogoods houfe was fearched and therein were found many papers that did difcover the whole plot, and between three and four thoufand pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, befides divers infruments to muther and deftroy with cruelty, fuch as wee never faw before. a poffefript. prince rupert and that army marched away as foone as their plot was difcovered, a 3 the