## (6008) thefe trees are exceedingly different amongst themelves; for, some shoot up in 2 or 3 bodies; others in one, as this. their leaves are many of them dead, and most discour'd, unless on very young trees. they are not at all beautiful, nor for agreeable to the eye, as the fruit is to the palate of them that love chocolatto. the number of coddsthe tree produces, is uncertain: but we reckon, a bearing tree yields from 2 to 8 pound of nuts a year; and each codd contains from 20 to 30 nuts. the manner of curing them is; to cut them down when they are ripe, and to lay them to sweat 3 or 4 days in the codd; which is done by laying them on heaps. after this they cut the codd, and take out the nuts, and put them into a trough cover'd with plantan- leaves, where they sweat again about 16 or 20 days. the nuts that are in each codd, are knit together by certain fibres, and have about them a white kind of pulp, that's agreeable to the palate. by the turning and wetting their little firings are broken, and the pulp is imbibed and mingled with the buffance of the nut. after this, they are put to dry 3 or 4 weeks in the sun, and then they become of a reddish dark colour, as you see, and for are cured. what is remarkable in this fruit is, that the codd's grow only out of the body or great limbs and boughs; and that at the same time, and in the same place, there are blofloms, young and ripe fruit. thefe trees bear at different times; the greatest crop, at most of our cacao walks is in december and january: but at one of colonel adidfords walks, whence this tree was taken, they bear most in may; yet its not above 5 miles from those walks, which bear always in december: but those that bear then, have some fruit in may; as the other have in december. it's planter; first in the nut, always under the side: some do it under caffive; others, under plantan- tree, and some in the woods. the spaniards use a certain large shady plant, call'd by them medre di cacao: we only the others; and seldom transplant, only where it fails, a it doth many times in o- pa, poor and dry lands: for, this tree requires to be the ter'd