the queen has been pleaded to direct, that a monthly correspondence be established between this kingdom, and her majesties dominions on the continent of america, by packet-boats, to pafts, and from bristol and new-tork, between which laft place, and the several provinces, colonies, and settlements of newengland, eoft and welf-ferley, penfivania and rhode-island, regular inland-pofts are already settled, and others are about to be fettled, through maryland, virginia, north and south-carolina, for the more eafe and expeditious conveyance of all letters and packers, which shall be conveyed by means of the fad packet-boats. these are therefore to give notice thereof; and that shortly a pre- nid i time will be published, when letters and packers will be taken in at the general poft-office, and at the several poft-offices throughout. great-britain, and ireland, and a day be appointed in each month, when the mails will be diffracted from the general poft-office for brifel, from whence the packet-boats are to take their departure. the rates for the portage of letters and packets, to, and from the general poft-office in london and new-tork, being as follows. for every single letter, not exceeding 1. one sheet of paper, for every double letter, not exceeding 2. two sheets of paper, and in proportion to the fame rates for every packet of letters. and for packets of any kind of greater 4. weight, for every ounce the packet-boats are to be of the burden of about eighty tonns, built on purpose for sailing, of strength to refit the seas, well mann'd, and commodiously contrived for entertaining paffengers, who will be kindly received, and entertained on board, on eafe terms. the fad packet- boats are permitted to carry out upon freight, the quantity of five tonns in goods, and bring home ten tonns, whereby all people may fend small parcels to new-tork, or any other place from thence by land-carriage, and be accommodated therein at reafonable rates. as they may be more particularly informed by william warren, undertaker of the fad packet-boats, in crown-court, in gracious street, london, printed by f. soule, in wbite- hart-court in gracious- street.