to those granted to the english eaf- india company at first, they would have found there was no reason to charge his majesty with granting us fuch immense or unparalelled privileges, or aficbing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noife of the guns at namur, as this petulant scribler does. dedication, pag. 9. but if h- - - and his suborners exclaim against our privileges as immense, they are reflow'd to diminish the authority by which they were granted, and call it only by the name of an o6roy, which signifies no more than a patent; whereas our privileges were granted us by an act of parliament, which are greater and more facred than all the o6rrys in europe: thus thro ignorance or malice they think fit to vilify his majesty's conduct and authority, which they pretend to defend. their malice is further demonstrated by the parenthefis. (to be prefum'd.) in the 2d page of the deca tion; where they speak of his majesty's promife to interpoife bis royal adetbirtry to do us ribb in cafe of diffu bance, and that at the publick cbarge (to be prefum'd.) of. bir antistin kingdom. there might poffibly have been fome need of their pasfirmis, had all mankind been indow'd with as little senfe and honefty as h- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - and his suborners; for no other body could ever prefume it to mea vany thing else, fince our acts do not oblige england: tho if they had prefum'd that our enemies would take care, shan'tlie faid promife should not be kept, the refual of leading our company the 3 men of war built at the charge of our own nation, would foon have con vince'd the world that they had prefum'd to ttre. 1. we have accounted for rejecting mr. douglas's propofal elfwhere; nor shall we take notice of h- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - h- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2. which only difcover his own temper, but do that honeft man no hurt. as to his charging us with fquandering away 50000 1. on 6 hukis at amlterdam and hamburgh, purely to make a noife of our proceed ing, &c. we would defire him and his suborners to reconcile it with what they fay from p. 14, to 20. where they own themelves that the dutch and hamburgers were both mightily pleas'd with the defign, p. 14. that the dutch were tickled with the concict that they fhould be slaver in the scots trade; and p.16. they fay, that that which gave the dead froke to the scots defign, was the eaff and welf- india companies running open moutd to the lords of amlterdam, fherwing what was batching by the scots com miffioners in their city to ruine the trade of the unic ed provinces. p. 17. they tell us, that the ham burgers thought it the more their interest to embrace the projeft, the more that the dutch oppo'd it: p. 18. that our affair was generally favour'd by the fargers of hamburg; and p. 21. that the government of eng land fent the senate of hamburgh a caution by sir paul ricaut to take care how they fufferd their burghers to embark with us. so that here we condemn them from their own mouths: it being plain from those conceffions, that we did not idly fpander away our money at hamburgh and amlterdam; but that both those trading cities approv'd our defign, and would have engag'd in it, had not the court of england and the dutch oppo'd it; and therefore what loffs of money we fuftain'd in those places, muft be charg'd to their account; fo that h- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - hst verified the proverb, that liars have need of good memories. this is not the only intance wherein thofe of h- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2. and his suborners have giv'n them the lip; for in the 4th page of the dedication, they e3 upbraid