texture, a shining fnowy whitenefs, and fo tranparent that common print may be read through the thickeft part of a large loaf. this fort of sugar may be feented with different flowers, by frewing the flowers on the moist cloths, and renewing them as often as the cloths are changed, and twice a day befides: the water, filtering through the cloth. carries down with it those particles of the flowers in which their fragrance refides, and leaves them in the sugar. laba relates, that twelve hundred pounds of refined sugar yield only five hundred and forty- fix of sugar royal. the french prepare, in imitation of the royal, a fort of sugar which they call fucre tappe. this is no other than the common clawed sugar rapfed very fine before drying, and rammed into small moulds which have been previously moistened with water. this fort of sugar looks very beautiful: but as its particles have no natural union, they separate upon the leaf moisture, and run into melafies. ## 3. of sugar-candy. sugar- candy is made from the mufcavado or clayed fugars, by diflolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification fetting them to cry- . fialize or fhoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnished with a number of fmall flicks laid acros for the fugar to fhoot upon: their lower aperture is almofr clofed, fo as to fuffer the part which remains liquid to filter through very flowly. when the fugar is fuficiently boiled, it is carried with all pofible expedition into an hot fove, immediately poured into the moulds, and the fove kept ftrongly heated. the fugar concretes upon the flicks into cryftaline mafles, of a white or brown colour, according as the fugar was pure or impure. ## appendix the art of fermenting and distilling melafies, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit. ## 1. of the fermentation of the cane juice in general. all kinds of sweet vegetable juices are capable of being converted, by means of flow fermentation, into viscous liquors, which may either be preferred in that form, or made to yield by distillation an inflammable spirit; by a haftv fermentation, or a flow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars. the native juice of the sugar cane, as it is eminently sweet, is likewise in a particular manner dipofed to ferment; but without a great deal of addrefs runs, beyond the proces of viscous fermentation, into an acetous flate. after it has undergone a degree of fire, it becomes lefs fucceptible of thefe changes; and does not ferment readily without the aifiance of fuch matters as promote this operation: fuch is the fower or head which arifes upon liquors during fermentation, &c.