# the unhappy v o y a g e. giving an account of the royal anne galley, captain willis commander, which was fplit to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizard the 10th of november, 1721. having on board the lord belhaven, who was going as governor to barbados, with several other perfons of diffinction, the whole number on board being 210, out of which there were only three faved; whole names are george hain, william gollfry, and thomas laurence, a boy. to the tune of, womens work is never done, &c. o! the fad and difinal story, 1 brought from off the lizard rocks, the royal anne in all her glory, there receiv'd a fatal shock: the winds and waves did both confipre, for to ruin all therein: oh belhaven! brave belhaven! mot unhappy haft thou been. governor unto barbados, he was failing bold and brave, little dreaming it was his fortune, for to have a warty grave; with many more brave noble perfons, which were put in place of truft, but oh! their sands were juft expiring, their time was come and die they muft. above two hundred souls were perifhd, in an infant all were loft. by furious winds and waves were driven, on the stag rocks they were caft; oh! the difimal cies and srickings, twould have pierc'd a heart of stone, when the galley fplit to pieces, for to hear their pitious moan. of all that were on board the vefel, only three could reach the shore, who on a wreck by the winds were carried, thro' the waves and billows roar: then praife the lord for his great mercy, you that thus have been prefervd, adore and magnifie his goodnefs, willingly your maker ferve. captain willis was commander, at this moft unhappy time, mange to be attorney general, with many more juft in their prime, where going over for to fetle, at barbados we do hear. but by the ocean they were followd, as they did their courfes fteer. what a scene of difmal horror, there was feen when this was o're, bodies floating on the ocean, by the waves were drove on shore, and the country people running, striving who fhould get the moft, stripping all without diffinction, tis the cuffom of the coaft. one gentleman was drove on shore, 'bout whom they found a thoufand pound, whofe name's finppofed to be crofter, by writings in b? zockets found: likewise they fay the lord belhaven, having on a diamond ring, his shirt mark'd to the hating ocean, did to shore his body bring. oh! the grief and fad diffraction, which this accident hath brought, on the wives and near relations, of the perfons that are loft : some for husband, other fathers, brothers, kinfmen, do lament, with aking hearts, and weeping eyes, to think how from them they are rent. but now obferve the difmal story, given by thef three that's fav'd, george hain, likewife william godfrey, and thomas lawnce, a boy tis laid, as to barbados we were failing, lord belhaven, he did fay, come noble boys and jovial sailors, happy may our vage be. but drawing near unto the lizard, there the storm began to rife, nothing then but defolation, did appcar before our eyes, such a dreadful scene of sorrow, sure before was never feen, oh belhaven! brave belhaven! moft unhappy foft thou been. captain willis cry'd brave sailors, do your beft, or die we muft, lord have mercy, now refive us, in thy providence we truft. save us in the time of danger, for death before our eyes appear, and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell down to prayer. then againft the fatal rocks, the royal galley fplit in twain, two hundred souls aloud were crying, lord fave us from the warty main, to fee cach for its life a hifting, as the waves foft mountains high, the galley in the deep a finking, while dying groans did pierce the sky. i fee the noble lord belhaven, climbing to the tdp-maft high, with many more of birth and breeding, who likewise in the waves did die, at length the galley fplit in pieces, death put an end to all their woe, we three poor souls upon a wreck, with waves was tofled too and fro. at length unto the shore was driven, where the people took us in, we prais'd the lord for his great mercy, since we thus prefervd have been, and fav'd us in the fatal hour, when the waves did us furround, and a many souls did pefin, and before our eyes were drown'd. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, wives a weeping for their husbands, the children for their father dear, let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrow they are in, and think upon the lord belhaven, how unhappy he has been. a noble lady in the city, hearing of her husband's death, 'twould have mov'd a heart of pity, to hear the words the fid exprefs, crying, o my teader jewel, is a warty wave thy tomb, i'll feareth the deep to find my dear, o cruel death come feize me foon. thus the raves in fad diffraction, in her bed with cords the's bound, crying night and day my jewel, he is in the ocean drown'd: thus many a mournful widow, and babies fatherlefs are made, confider then the many dangers, which poor sailors thro' do wade. many more that night did perifh, in the storm as we do hear, as in the downs the fleet was riding, some lord belhaven's fate did fhare; lord keep us from all fuch difatter, deliver us from fudden death, and give us grace that we may ferve; the. mighty god while we have breath.