or, the earl of effex. their queen, and i am weary of the load, and want a friend like thee to lull my sorrows. c. eff. behold these tears sprung from fierce pain and joy, to fee your wond'rous grief, your wondrous pity. o that kind heav'n wou'd but infruct my thoughts, and teach my tongue such foftning, healing words, that it might charm your soul, and cure your breaft for ever. queen. thou art my better angel then, and fent to give me everlasting quiet— say, is't not pity that fo brave a man, and one that once was reckon'd as a god, that he should be the author of such treasons; that he, that was like cæar, and fo great, has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou'd stoop to gain a petty throne from me? c. eff. i can't believe 'tis in his soul to think, much lefs to aë a treafon against you, your majesty, whom i have heard him fo commend, that angels words did never flow with fo much eloquence, fo rare, fo sweet, that nothing but the subjeet cou'd deferve. queen. haht thou then heard him talk of me? c. eff. i have, and as of fo much excellence, as if as if he meant to make a rare encomium on me. the world, the stars, or what is brighter, heav'n. sheis, faid he, the goddefs of her sex, so far beyond all woman-kind beside, that what in them is moft adore, and lov'd, their beauties, parts, and other ornaments, are but in her the foils to greater lufres, and all perfections elfe, how rare forever, are in her perfon but as leffer gleams, and infinite beams that usher still the sun, but farce are visible amidst her other brightnefs, and then the is fo good, it might be faid, that whilft helives, a goddefs reigns in england. for all her laws are regefter'd in heaven, and copy'd thence by her—but then he cry'd, with a deep sigh fetch'd from his loyal heart, well may the world bewail that time at last, when fo much goodnefs shall on earth be mortal, and wretched england breakits flabbrorn heart. queen. did he say all this? c. eff. all this! nay more, a thousand times as much, i never saw him.