away i waft with tears by night in vain, tears, fighes by night, by day encrease thie paine. mince eyes no eyes, but fountains of my tears, my tears no tears, but floodsto myself my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my fears, my fears no fears, but feelings of my heart. my heart, my fears, my heart, my tears, mine eies are blinde, didde, lpen, palf, wafted with my cries. and yet mine eies, though blind, fee caufe of griefe, and yet my tears, though didde, runne downe amaine: and yet my heart, though fpent, attends reliefe. and yet my fears, though palf, encrease my paine. and yet i lues, and liuing feele more fment, and fmenting, cry in vaine, breake heavy heart. xxxii. canzonet. defres gouernment. w here wit isouer-ruldb wy will, and will isled by fond defiie, ti ere reifon were as good be fill, as peaking, kindle greater fire, for where defiie doth bear thefway; the heart mult rule, the head obay. what boot st the canning pilots skill, totell which way to thape their courfe? booke ii. of cansonets. when he that fleers will huise his will, and driue them where he bil pe force. so reafon fleves the truth in vaine, wiere fond deiire as king dothraigne. xxxiii. canzonet. lues preperites. i wist heat and cold, t'wist death and life, i freeze and burn, i lue and die; which joynly worke in me fuch trife, i liue in death, in cold i fy. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. fift burning heste fets all on fire, witherely i feeme in flames tofy; then cold delpire kils hot defire, that drenched deepe, in death ilye. heate driuesout cold, and keeps my life, cold quencheth heate, so end of trife the life i hope to haue my will, the more i teele deire enceale, and as deire encreafeth fill, defpire to quench it doth not ceafe, so liue i as the lamps, whof light oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. k 1. lising