as the echiope cannot change his skin, not the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not poffible to gather grapes of thornes, or figges of thiffles : to it is to no purpose to force any thing to ftrue against nature. as in tilling of the ground and huf-bandrie, there is firt chofen a ftrille foile, then a cunning fower, then good feed : euen fo we mutt compare nature to the fat earth, the expert husbandman tothe schoolmeafter, the faculties and sciences to the pure feeds. as the fertill foile ifit be neuer tilled doch was barren : fo that which is not noble by nature, is made molt vileby negligence. asthe torch turned downward is extinguished with the fellfefame ware, which was the caufe of his light : fo nature turned to vnkindneffe is quenched by thofe means it hould bee kindled, leauing no branch of loue, where is found no roote of hu-manitie. zewis. part.2. part.2. wealth. wealth. zewis. a s cookes with for a plentiful abreed of cattell, and fitheri of fifhes : fo buffe-brained innouaters doe hunt after newes, and innouation in fates. plus. as wee fet vp meate from cats and dogges : fo we mutt take heed, what we speak before newes mongers, and in- fnuating intelligencers. idem. as our bodies are moreindangered by the spring, & in autumne, by reason of change : lo all noueltie doth offend and hurt the common-wealth. as change of meate, drinkeandaire doth offend, albeit it be into like, or into better : fo it is better ffill to re- tainour old princes and magiftrates, then to gapefor new, because all in- neation is full of danger and diftur- bance. as aqion called homer from the dead, forfone other caufe, butto know from what parentage he was defcoeoded: fo many take great pains, and beftow much coft, only to heare news, and know nouclries. plin. lib. 30, cap. 2.