abtanfillgeaingvailifatistaysoffteromends,onsinur,ves,pro-norheycanr of the,theny ingoral,be foris ingin vingery. hold- share letus dimi- poffi- nality tous? viricethe neil- ud be onbe or. exif- binditrefs whichbites. our duty to contribute our share; and to act from confi- [5 ence, as we should in similar cafes from feeling and inclination. for instance: let us suppose the algerines to establish fugar plantations, and report to the banks of the thames for slaves. suppose our wives, our husbands, our children, our parents, our brethren, swept away, and the fruit of their labour, produced with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs, landed at the port of london. what would be our conduct? should we say, "sugar "is a necessary of life: i cannot do without it. besides the quantity i "is is but small: and though it be very criminal in the algerines to en- "live others, i am not bound to look to the nature or consequence of the "transfaction. paying for the fugar, i have a right to conuume it, how- "ever it may have been obtained." if such would be our language in that cafe, be it so on the present occasion. for let us recollect that in both cafes the enslaved are our brethren. and let us only suppose an englishman were to receive inju- ries, that bore but the lightest relemblance to those daily com- mitted in our islands, the nation would be inflamed with repent- ment, and clamorous to avenge the injury. and can our pride suggest, that the rights of men are limited to any nation, or to a- ny colour? were anyone to treat a fellow creature in this coun- trv as we do the unhappy africans in the west- indies; struck with horror, we should be zealous to deliver the oppressed, and punish the oppressor. are then the offices of humanity and func- tions of justice to be circumscribed by geographical boundaries? can reason, can conscience justify this contrast in our conduct, between our promptitude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the other?—mr. addison justly observes, that "humanity to be- come estimable must be combined with justice." but we seem to act as if we thought, that the relief of our fellow creatures, and protection from injuries, were works of supererogation; to be granted or with- held, as caprice, or inclination may suggest. after the important considerations adduced, it might be rec- koned a degradation of the subject to mention the national dig- nity; or even that might induce us to counteract a powerful bo- dy of men, who are trampling under foot, the dictates of huma- nity, and the interest of the nation: men, who have received for fugar alone, above a million per ann. more than it would have colt at other markets. from mr. botham's evidence it appears, that in batavia, where labour is as high as in england, fugar e- qual to the belt welt- india, is fold at 1d per pound. these are the men who are calling on us to aid the operation of their whips by the terrors of our bayonets; and to misapply the public treat- fute to support individuals in violating every principle of law and justice, and to defend them in the most dreadful tyranny over half a million of perfons, born in islands, which, when it serves their purpose they pretend to be ours; but of which they have virtually usurped the sovereignty: and have the audacity to tell the british legislature, "that they cannot abolish the slave trade; for that if england refuses to furnish them with slaves,