## the epistle dedicatory, violent? and on the contrary, upon the kind alpæts of the sun, jupiter, and venus, they be not more gentle, mild, and refrigerating? and also, whether the arising of your pleiades, hyades, and confiliated eagle, &c. (chiefly when any eminent conjunction or alpæt falls in with them) do not certainly induce moiture? i befeeb you (my honoured and worthy friends) to take fome notice of thefe matters, which you may eafily do, by keeping a diary of the wtather; as alfo of the effects of your vernal ingrefes, (which i intend, god permitting me life, once a year to prefenf you withal;) and pray ye alfo obferve, together therewith, the tranfits, conjunctions, &c. of the planets over the prime parts of your islands palladium, or genefis; that they may be preferred by your generous communication, as well for the advance of truth in science, as advantage of your selves and country. thus, worthy friends and countrymen, mifbing you all happinefs, and, as fo many fuccefsful columbus's, to encrease as well in your acquaintance with the influences of the glorious diamonds of heaven, as in the gold and treasure of the indies; which (if st. paul may be credited, rom. i.19.) will lead ye certainly unto an enjoyment of that immortal treasure, of which saints and angels partake in heaven — i remain, to your honoured selves, and to the brick-court, by truths of aftrologie, a real the deans-yard, servant, whilft, weftminster. john gadbury. the names of the feveral g o v e r n o u r s of j a m a i c a, fine the taking thereof by the english, anno 1655. 1. the honourable col. d'oyley, was governor-nour thereof, firt after its being taken. 2. the right honourable the lord of windfore, was governor thereof. 3. the honourable sir thomas modyford, knight and baronet, was governor of this noble inland; and he it was that commanded a general survcigh to be taken of it, at his own charge; and under him it began eminently to flourish. 4. the honourable and valiant sir thomas lynch, knight, fucceeded sir thomas modyford, and is the prefect governor thereof; and under him hath this gallant country happily improved. in my next years book, i shall (god permit- ting) give you a more ample chronology of the remarks relating to this noble inland; together with an account of the commodities, and growth thereof.