that as to the virginia trade, which brings greatest advantage to his majefly, the merchants of ireland are in a manner wholly cut off from that trade, except they will drive it to the utter ruin of the kingdom. (which they revolve not to do) for neither provifion, nor horfes will go off at virginia, nor are servants to be had to fuch numbers as to en- able that trade; and the export of their manufacture is prohibited. so that if they will drive that trade, they muft do it with calh, and turn all the little money they have into smoak, or be at the excefive charge, double hazard and expefence of time, to come unto, and return through england with that ( as all other plantation commodities ) which hath occasioned frequent lofs of seafons, and of ships and car- go's to the lofs of the duty to his majefly, and ruin of many merchants, as they made appear in very many deplorable infances, too long to be here inferred. they fay, that whereas by an act of the 25. car. 2. for better fe- curing the plantation trade, it is enacted, that if any ship or vefelf, which by law may trade in any of the plantations, fhall come to take on board any plantation commodities, and that bond fhall not be firft given, with fufficient surety to bring them to england, wales, or bar- wick, that there fhall be paid there on white sugars 5. per cent. on mucovados 8. d. per cent. on tobacco 1 d. per pound, &c. which afford- ed fome eafe to the diffrefled merchants of ireland in returning, with- out being necefitated to come to england to enter. yet that door alfo hath been fhut against ireland by the artifice of the arbitrary commiffioners of the cufdoms in england. for contrary to the plain import of that law, there was a ship of england which paid that duty in the plantations, feized and condemned, under pretenee that that aft was only intended for the trade between plantation and plantation, although there is nothing in the aft that gives countenance to that confruffion. that tho the manufactures of ireland are few, and that the moft conf- fiderable of them is linnen, which interferes not with the manufacture of england, and that the quantity exported in times of free trade to the plantations was but fmall, yet the suffenance of a good number of the moft neceffitous of their people depended wholly on that little, and that they cannot fubfift barely by air, more than the people of eng- land. that by refaon of the eafnefs to fubfift in ireland, the refrafions on trade, the diffculty, if not impoffibility ( now ) to grow rich by trade, and the cheapnefs of land ; merchants are inclined to purchase, rather than trade. that from thence, and the mean way of living of the natives, paucity of inhabitants, little deimand of the native com- modities in foreign markets, the want of any peculiar commodity,