## purslain, white and red. these differ very little, if any thing, from thofe in england, except in the ranknefs of their growth here. they are generally boiled and ufed, when more valuable greens are not in plenty. the arabian jessammy; lat. jasminum five sambac arabum. this is a woody creeping vine, cloathed with dark- green harp- pointed leaves, of about two inches long, and one broad, bearing seven- leaved white fragrant flowers. thefe are fupported by seven very harp- pointed graminous leaves. this is planted chiefly in gardens, or near dwelling- houfes. it yields a very agreeable fragrant smell, and keeps its verdure all the year. ## tithymaloides. the roots of this are very numerous and strong. the main stalk branches near the earth, into many fipral strong twigs. the bark of the trunk, near the roots, is fmooth and whitifh; but all its branches of a deep shining green, keeping their grateful verdure undiminished thro' every seafon of the year. thefe are cloathed with thick fucculent green round- pointed leaves, of about four inches long, and two in breadth, having their fmooth edges a little tinged with yellow. thefe are likewise fet on the branches alternately. the flower, which is of a fine deep red, cannot be reduced to any clafs that hath hitherto been defcribed by any botanical writer, it being a triangular harp- pointed fmall horizontal sheath; the top of the pitfil jutting out, making the extremity of the longeft angle: this, on the in- . fide of the flower, is covered with a yellow farinaceous duft. from the fame narrow aperture appear feveral fmall stamina, tipped with green apices. thefe flowers are fucceeded by triangular fmall berries, of a dark red when ripe. each of thefe inclofes three angular seeds. the berries, branches, and leaves, are full of a thick glutinous milky juice. the only place that i have feen this was at cliff's bay, in st. lucy's parifh. this very feldom grows in any other part of the inland.