## 192 a choice manual, or, the dofe is one or two fpounfuls morning and evening. the virtue of aqua marie. it is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obftru- cions thereof, it comforteth the vital parts, and is good against all paffions of the heart; it prefer- veth the meat in the fomach from putrefaction; it helpeth digefti- on, and expeleth wind. the dofe is one fpounful at one time. the virtues of flowers of rosemary. it is good against all infirmities of the fomach, and to fupprefs all offenfive fumes rifing up from thence to the head, keeping them down, and helpeth memory, it openeth all ftoppings of the liver and milt, it preventeth vertigo, scotomia, palfies, apoplexies, dif- leafes of that kind arifing from cold humours, it breaketh wind, and eatfeth the cholick. the dofe is r fpounful at 1 time. the ## rare secrets in phyfick, 193 the virtues of spirit of mint. it is good for the ftomach, and ftrengthens the retentive faculty, good against vomiting, and all paffons of the heart, it comforteth the vital fpirts,and is good against the conumption, it expelbeth wind, and helpeth digeftion, and is an infallible help for all melan- cholv. the dofe is from one to two fpounfuls. the virtues of aqua theriacalis. it is good against all difeafes of the spleen whatfoever; it pre- venteth and helpeth contagions, and fuftden oppreflions and qualms of the heart. the dofe is one fpounful to pre- vent, and 3 to the infefted, who oupelt to fweat after taking it. the virtues of spirits of safroo. it is good to comfort the vital spirits, paffions, trembling, and penfivenefs of the heart, and helpeth all malignity oi prefling it,