is clear that laying on of hands was vividly done, outwardly apparent, simon faw it, furely then praiet was vocal and apparent, they both did pray; and not as fome would have itone did pray vocalie , and the other mentallie. but fome may quzrie further, did they lay on hands both at a time, viz. peter and johnt truly the text is not clear in that particular. onlie the text faith thus much, they laid on their hands on the samaritan, they,in the plural number. i shall fay no more as to thele circumstances, i hope thofe which are judicious will not stand upon fuch niceties as thefe are, but rather will mind fubftantials,and fo i shall defire the reader to make his progreffe unto the next particular, and leave this unto confederation. ## chap. iii, is concerning the ends wherefore laying on ofands it is to be administered upon bapti- zed believers. i am not ignorant that the whole weight of the controversy lies in the clearing up of this point, and why? because thee hath been a great deal of difference amongst the people of of god , and that as to the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers, and also the ends wherefore they were laid up- o1 baptized believers in fomnet times the contention about this point hath been fo much the stronger,because of fome contrarie ends which have been propofed by fome in opposition unto thofe right ends which i shall here lay down. and because we may obferve a right order and method for the profit of all, i shall therefore fitt lay down thofe ends which i judge to be of moft strength and life for the maintenance of what is formerly laid down; and then i shall come in the next place to overthrow thofe fuppofed ends which are brought in by others. in the firt place i shall affirm, that one end wherefore perfons are to have hands laid on them, is, that fo they may be put into a further capacitie of going on to perfection. i would not here be miftaken, i do not fay others who ha ve not fubjeeted unto this principle are no wai es in a capacitie of going on to perfection ; but this is that i do affirm, namely, that thofe baptized believers who have fubjeeted unto this truth,are put into a further way of capacitie of going on to perfection, and therefore this is one end wherefore it is to be d3 fub