## 24 the rumpant story. a finge perfon, fomething like a king, nolls cratt, and crew, and power, to pals did bring, protector, or projector rather, levelling allto his lufts, a while, fits proudly revelling the feather in his cap, the title king. hee calls, and yet the power, till ufirping, five yeas hee rul'd, not reign'd, himfeif protecting by power and sword, all juft men elfe rejecting, in his own cratt god till was him defeating, hee would and would not, fo hee luv'd by cheating. calls three mock- parlements, breaks up the thing. o! his own m.king, caufe hee would bee king, a pack of knaves were fome, fome could not give up out grand laws, whiles charls his son did live, nolls fit to rule, but no juft title having, makes him unjuft, and made him alwaies craving of all religions that made for his fupporting, made all opinions firtrup his- ufurping; a coach- box favour god him once was giving, on michaelmas day, to change his wicked living. state secretary in the coach doth fit, protector in the coach- box, where's his wit: sometimes fuch frolicks mad into his brain were whymfied by his fpirit, or his train; but this one act was like their actions all, one draws another, now noll gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that noll had none, noll had fome virtues, mercy hee lack alone; one of his three mock- parlements was fitting when as their head at the horfe- heels was fitting. some part o'th' army nol abroad doth fend, for gold, to hipaniol, keeps to mend the reft, worms lambert out, and others trembling obey, yet moft do hate his bafe diffembling. his major generals, semi- dragons- fting the lands, nols bafhaws then deferv'd the ftring. for moneys fake the fews he in would bring, caufe they fore him had murder'd chrift their king. he then pleads for the fews the scripture text for their conversion, though with- his own he's vexet. some part o'th' army nol abroad doth fend, for gold, to hipaniol, keeps to mend the reft, worms lambert out,and others trembling obey, yet moft do hate his bafe diffembling. his major generals, semi- dragons- fting the lands, nols baffaws then deferv'd the ftring. for moneys fake the fews he in would bring, caufe they fore him had murder'd chrift thei king. he then pleads for the fews the scripture text for their conversion, though with- his own he's vexet. he doth divines call up from- feverall places, to colour that defign, his chaplains faces are not fo braz'd as his, he turns the few, he gets the gold, and then forfakes that crew, still mony lacks,for that his conficence bends his power and fword, and valor thereto tends, it muft be had, if that the gods deny, the acheron hee'1 force, and devils try, makes churches fables, a sacrilegious thing, this was the reformation nol did bring. brave man, where doth thy fpirit fadly rumble? how in this world did thy afpirings tumble things upfide down?valour with counfel fwayd is good, grand nol makes all the world afraid. how many leem to blefs when as they curfe? not cares not, fo that hee have power and purfe. how did his parlaments and himfelf agree? how did his feveral speeches made to three concur: and with his recognition more, prayes, and profetts, and fwears, makes up the fcore. e he