— primo avulfo non deficit alter anrenu, & familifrondeficit virga metallo. the whole complex of ingredients is known to confit only of vulgar agua fortis (abbreviated from two parts of vitriol, and one of salt- peter) and quick- filver, and a small quantity of silver, far lefs than you may reap in a small time from those silver- fprigs; yet gain there is none, there being more expences blown away into finoak by continuance of fire in one month, than can be recover'd from this silver- harveft in a longer time. and though this feem but a toy, yet 'tis very philosophical, much informing the under- standing, however it enrich not the purfe. for here we fee crude mercu- ry manifestly turn'd into silver, notwithstanding 'tis deny'd by fo many. so far this generous obferver for this time; with the laft part of whose relations may be compared numb. 39. p. 779, 780. 'tis hop'd, that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the subject, he hath here begun to difcoure of, and others of a philofophical nature, will be further communicated by him. ## an account of some particulars, referring to those of jamaica, numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the younger, an eye- wintefs. 1. a llegators are fhup'd like lizzards, being four footed they walk with their belly at distance from the ground, like lizzards. thofe of a full growth, have teeth like a malfiff, and a mouth of 1 foot wide. they are of fo strong a feent, that you may fmeil them at a pretty distance, when they lie on the land. they may be maffer'd and kill'd by any, dextrous and skill d in the way of doing it, which is, that a man be arm'd with a good long tronchion, and fall upon them fide-ways; for doing it frontways, they are too nimble for the affailant, and may, by leaping upon him, (which they can do the le-gh of their whole body) spoil him: but if he lay his club on them against their shoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and i me them there, th: beaft being thereby rendred ur-able to move, is eafly fubdued. 2. tortois, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they fhll live, their blood mult nor be hotter, than the element, they live in. 3. the chgo's, defcribed by ligon, are not felt to have got in o th body, till a week after. they will breed in great numbers, and fhut them- felves