they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. wr. der they imagine to have beene the beginning of making the world; and that bebe the foure elements, there is a fisth naute, whereof the heauen and starres could. they intreare of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and may fuch like matters. the 1 germaner, another order of religious or learned men, are honored among them: especialy fuch of them as luser in the woods, and of the woods, both for the dire of those wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, nor acquainted with bacchuo or uenus any more then with ceru. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by mefengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is suppesed, by their holinesse. next in honor to these, are certaine mendisann, which liue of rice and bath, which any man at the first asking giueeth them, together with entertainmente into the houfes. these professe skill in physicke, and to remedie disfæes, wounds, and telling very confatant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanter and diuiner, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more ciuill and fecular, in their life professing like pietie and holinesse. when also are admitted unto the fellowship of other fluides in this philosophie, not so their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of these brachmanns, the onesin man hauen, the other yong with long hair, which fometimes retorted to the macha place, and werehonored as counsellors, and freely tooke whar they pleased, of any thing thereto be sold, for their fultenance. they were anointed with sehaminty, wherewith, and with homy, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to di- andert table, where they gaue leffons of patience: and after going to a placemeff of, the old man lying downe with his face upward, fustified the sunne and thome terrible violence. theyonger standing on one foot, held in both his hands a peered wood of three cubits lifted up, and huffed feete, as the other was wearie: and being continued euery day. theyong man returned home afterward, but the old man ful- lowed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by fome reproued, he anfwered that he had fulfilled the forie yeares exercife, which he had vowed. oneferius faith, that alexander, hearing of fome religious obferum, which weintraked, and exerctified themfelues to much hardfip, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to come them; fext him vnto them, who found fifference of them weintrie furlongs from the g- tie, each ofthem obferuing his owne gefture of fisting, standing, cryingaked, and not flirting till sun- feting, in that vnipportable hearfe, at which time they retuned into the cite. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into pe- fia, where beginning to be ficke, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himefile in a golden charie, and caused fire to be put to, in whiche was voluntarily confumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander in a fubory of batholym, and that the fire was of cedar, cypress, mirtle, laurel, and other fweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercife of running, hep- ced himefile in the middelf, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne shining in him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the figure which he gaue to the ma- cedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any flirting till he wasted: alexander himfelle admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told oneferius of a golden world, where meale was in fenu- full as duft, and fountains fireamed milke, horny, wine and oyle, which counsry, by men turned into wantonmefle, fupper altered and detained,impoofing a life of havinfe and labour, which while men followed, they enjoyed abundance; but now that me beginto furtet and grow difobedient, there is danger of vniuersfall defruction. when he had thus focken, he badchim, if he would hearfe further, thrip himelfe, and ly me- ked vpon these ftones. but mandanis, another of them, reproued calanus for harfines, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, said that they must their bodies to labour forthe confirmation of their minds against paffions. for his me-