cap.13. some were banged, fome beaded, fome were burned, fome drowned, fome devoured of wilde beats, fome pull'd in pieces by men more fa- vage them beats, yet they did all bear it, and rejoyced they fuffed for confidens, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice ecc. hii. bayted with wilde beats, to be torn in piece 1.5. cap. 1. by them, (as euphoius reports) attalus eica- ping the beats, was refereed to other tor- ments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all. sceri-hij. macedonius, theodorus, and tatianus laid 1.3. cap. 13. upon a gredym, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus artobufus was fripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot forching sun, to be eaten up with flier, and flung to death with maff, yet did he fuffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-ediie that idol temple in his dioces, which he had former- ly plucked down. to be eaten up with flier, and flung with maff he did account fare theodoret. more direable, that he might prefeve his fij.3. cap.6. confidens in paritie and peace, then to be eaten up of borrow, and flung with hornets, if to prefeve his life, he had delivered up his confidens. there were many christians together foot up in lake, or cavus artisif- ally made clofe, which lakes, or ditche, were filled with companie of dormife, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the wilde bound hand and foot, that they could not keep off thofe cap. 13. hunger-favred creatures, which were kept without, meat also purposely, that they might fatten upon the bodies of thofe godly men; which lingering and miserable death they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the hifto- rian. they chofe much rather to lie in fuch alake artificialy foot, and to be eaten up alive with thofe vermin, their confidens being preferved, then to yeeld up this fort of confidens for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horror of confidens. and when dead, to be bound band and foot, and caft into an in- ternal lake of fire and brimfone, externally foot up, there to be conversant with filthy flirits, and to be eaten up with thofe hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impofible to mention all, ladantius faith not onely the men among the christians, and thofe of flonger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (faith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard corporis for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could iijefmdi fech fo much as a groan from them: which lacernis- the floutft thewes and malefactors among ne perfeme their perfectours could not undergo, but exelamens, they would roare and crie out through im- gyemius patience, and difabilitie to endure them. eban; men (wde viris necem) pueri, & muliercula torores fast uccisi vim- con, & expromete illis geminum nec ignis puefi lab.1.5. cap.13. but