this medicine. price four shillings the bottle. vi. pulvis antifabricius nofer: or, our general febrifuge. 1. a n admirable poudar against fevers of all forts: a few dofes thereof (with the ufe of the other medicines) takes off the fever beyond expectation. 2. it is fomething sadorifick, but for the moff part works downwards firt,and afterwards provokes sweat; it is a prevalent remedy against putrid fevers, meafles, small-pox, calenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous difeafes. 3. it is good against the green-ficknefs, drop-fie, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profitable in heftick fevers. 4. it refits puritafion, fortifies the stomach, correfts crudities, purifies the blood, cleanfes the bowels of filth and vicious humours, by a gentle purging way. the dofe and manner of using it. 1. et the patient drink plentifully of our ag. vita mag. according to the directions in its place: give a dofe of pouder in the morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you fee occasion, more or lefs; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glafs of canary, or a fpoonful of syr. of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii. aqua (11) vii. aqua ruba mineralis. s an excellent medicine of a prelerivative nature, of great benefit in the plague, and other contagious diflempers; particularly against the burning thirtf in fevers: good against coughs, shortnefs of breath, ptyfick, the difeafes of throat and mouth; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thrufh in children, quinfies, and fuch like inflammations; as alfo for an unfavorv breath. it's ufe and dofe. for thrufhes or fore mouths in fucking children, or any foulnefs of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, fweetned with a little honey of rofes, and fo drink it, and wafh their mouthes with the fame; for people of riper ycars, they muft gargle their mouths with it; it being compofed to a gargarifm with white-wine, or plantain-water, and dulcfied with syrup of mulberries, or honey of rofes; often taking from 6 drops to 40, or 50, in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirtf in fevers, give from 6 drops to 40 or 50, or half a spoonful in fo much beer, or ale, that it may taff fharpifh of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5 or 6 hours fpace; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party defires to drink, offering in fuch cafes to take often to procure sweat, of my elix, magnum cordialis, and at night to take b. 3.