euforbium muft do what cochipils will not: opium muft do what let- tice poffet will not, but firft it muft be mixed up into a ridiculeous laudum, colocymida or scammony muft effcct what manna, sete or rhubarb will not: o brave doctors! o ta- pita hellebore digna! yet you are the men that cry out against poy- fons. as though scammony, colocymida, belaterium, eflula, euphorbium, vala- pium, bryony, afarum, aaron, helle- bote, and fuch like, as cambogia, ore, were not absolute: poyfons: o but they are tempered by the art of the. skilful doctor. good words coift no money, i wifh it prove fo. but i pray mr. doctor if it be fo, what means the bleating of the sheep: i mean, what is the reason your medi- caments retain their vomiting quali- ty with convulsions of the fomack which have hellebore mixed) and their purging quality with gripings and and helmont's vindication. and fuch fympomes that have scam- mony mixed: thus you ufe to cor- rect poyfons, thus you intend to cure difcales, ominervam crsiffimam! but as a jugler when his feats are discovered, foyou by this means be- comibidiculous, you know the fe- rious check the frog in aefop re- ceived, who asiyou do, would pre- tend to be a doctor, cur tibi ipfa la- bra tivida non itwra? coughs, colds, murres, hoarfe- neffes, head- aches, tooth- aches, and the like; nay, bft-times the fimple itch, and scab, doth reproach you at home, and outdare you abroad, and what is your excufe? they are trivial cafes. by which it appears, that if other difeales, hould become as common as thefe, they would all be too mean for the doctor's reverence, and good reason, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountbanks with