in this plor of ground, there was (in that yeere) more than 5ooo0. perfons buried, as i have read in the charters of edward the third. also i have fene and read an in- ferption fixed on a fone crofe, fome- time flanding in the fame church-yard and having thefe words: anno domini, 1549. regnante magna pellientia, confertam fuit hoc camiere- rium, in quo c in fira fpta praefuit mo- nsterii, fepulta ferant mortuorum cor- pora, plagium quinquaginta millia, pra- ter alia multa abhinc afque ad praefus, quorum animabus proprietur deus, a- men. in confederation of the number of christian people here buried, the fad sir walter maneycaued firt a chap- pell to be builded, where (for the fpace of twenty three years) offerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above 100000. bodies of christian people had in that church-yard become buried, for the fad knight had purchased that place for the burial of poore people, travellers, and other that were difca- fed, to remaine for ever, whereupon, and over the waters, for the way of confention between the partons of churches and that house, to wit, that the bodies should be had unto the church where they were partitioners, or dyed, and after the funeral service done, had to the place where they should be buried. and the yeere 1371. he caufed there to be founded an houfe of carthuana monkes, which he willed to be cailed the salutatio, and that one of the monkes should be called prior, and he gave them the fad place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chappel, and houfe there builded for their habitation. healfo gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of westminster, and the lands of the prior of saint john, which three acres being purchased, inclofed, and dedicated by ralph stratford, bi- hop of london, as is aforefhewed, re- mained till our time, by the name of pardon charbur- yard, & feverd for bury- ing of fuch as desperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, who were fetched thither unfailly in a clofe cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white crofle thwarting, and at the fore-end a s. johns crofle without; and within a bell ringing by thaking of the cart, whereby the fame might be heard when it palfed, & this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to s. johns, and had the privilegede of sanctuary. in this charter- hofe were the mon- ments of the fad sir walter maney, and margaret his wife, marmaduke lumley, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward federfe, knight, sir william maney, knight, dame john brough, john dore, want water, knight, robert olney, efe- quire, katharine, daughter sir william babington, knight, blanch, daughter to hugh waterton, katharine, wife to john at poor, daughter and heire to richard lace, william ramil, sir john len- thoine, and dame margaret his wife, daughter to john fray, john peale el- quire, william baron, and william baron, efequires, sir thomas thwartier knight, philip morgan, bithop of ely, 1434. in the cloyfrie, bartholomew rede, knight, maior of london, buried 1505. sir john popham, &c. this monfayer, at the fuppreion in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 642.1.4.0. half penny yeerly. here now i find fit time, to commend to all fucceeding poftery, the duly de- ferved praifes of that truely worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, ma- fter thomas sutton, the right phanix of charity in our times. this late diffol- ved charter- hofe, by weft smithfield, belonging then to the right honorable twoma earle of saffolfe, after lord trefaurer of england, is fucfiently knowne to bee a very large and goodly manfion, beaurified with fpaious gar- dens, walkes, orchards and other pleafures, enriched with divers depen- dencies of lands and tenements ther- to belonging, and very aptly feared for wholefome aye, and many other commodities. all which commodif- neffe of fituation, and largenfee of cir- cuit, gave occasion to this well- minded gentleman mafter sutton, to affeft that houfe, as the only place, whereon to build the foundation of his religious purpose. for, among other his chri- tian determinations, he had former- ly intended to build an houfe at hal- ingbury bacheers in ely, to be an hof- pitall for fuch poore men and children as he himselfe (in his life time, or fu- ture governors for the fame toce de- pured) should think fit to be lodged and relieved there; alfo, for a schoole- matfer and vther, to teach children to read and write, and infruct them in the latine and grecke grammar: with a learned divine likewise to preach the word of god to them all, and a mafter befide, to govern all those people belonging to that houfe. to this befled end and purpose, hee had procured (by earnest fuit) power by an act of parliament, to build fuch an hofpitall in the towne of haling- bury bacheers, and that the fame should be named, the hofpitall of king james, founded in halingbury in the coun- tie of ely, at the humble petition, and at the only colts and charges of thomas sutton, efequire: appointing alfo fuch honourable, reverend and worthy perfons, as by the fad act of parliament were founded and ap- pointed, to be the firt and infant go- vernors of the lands, poffeffions, gods and revenues of the fad hof- pitall. but afterward, upon more grounded deliberation, and finding this goodly houfe of the charter- hofe, to be much more convenient for the purpose, than that to be builded at halingbury could be: he became an earnest fuitter to the earle of saffolfe, to purchase that houfe of him, acquainting his honor with the alteration of his minde con- cernfing halingbury, and his earnest def- fire to make the charter- hofe his hof- pitall. the earle being honourably enciied to go god a motion, the mat- ter fuftained the leffe debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargain and fale was affured. the fiumme disbursed for this purpose, amounted to 13000. which was paid down in hand, before the enfculating of the conveyance. then he became fuitter againe to his majefie, to perform all that at the charter- hofe, which he had formerly intended at halingbury: wherefo the king readyy yeeded, being graciously affeced to fo charitable a worke, and granted his letters patents to the fane effeft. and the right reverend father in god, george, archbithop of canur, barie, thomas lord elfenere, lord chancellor of england, robert lord high trefaurer of england, john the- lecet bishop of london, lacelie bishop of ely; sir edward cote, knight, chieft lufice of the common pleas; sir thomas folter, knight, one of his majefies lufices of the common pleas; sir henry boad, knight and baronet, attorney general; john o- verall, deane of pauls in london; george musatine, deane of freminfier; henry thursley, efequire, one of the malfers of the chancerie; giffrey nigh- tingle, efequire; richard sutton, ec- quire; john low gentleman; thomas browne, gentleman; and the mafter of the hofpitall of king james, founded in the charter- hofe, within the county of middlesefex, at the humble petition, and the only colts and charges of thomas sutton, efequire, were elected, nomi- nated and ordained by the kings most excellent majefie in his letters patents granted, to be the firt governor of the lands, poffeffions, revenues and goods of the fore- fad hofpitall, and continual maintenance thereof in forme following. all his mannors and lordhips of southminster, norton, little haltingbury, alias haltingbury bacheers, and mach- stanbridge, in the county of ely. all those his mannors and lord- ships of haltingbury, alias, buttingbury bacheers, alias, salop, alias, haltingbury, chilton and blackgreve, in the county of wiles. and all of those his lands & pafure- grounds, called black- grove, contaning by elimination 200 acres of pafure, with the appurte- nances in blackgreve and wrington, in the fad county of wits. and also in that his manor of miffondre, otherwise called the manor of miffondre, in the parifhes of wrington, lyfardre and all those his mannors and lord- ships of salop, alias, salop, alias, haltingbury, chilton and blackgreve, in the county of wiles. and also all those his lands & pafure- grounds, called black- grove, contaning by elimination 200 acres of pafure, with the appurte- nances in blackgreve and wrington, in the fad county of wits. and also in that his manor of miffondre, otherwise called the manor of miffondre, in the parifhes of wrington, lyfardre and 479 thefia covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs covrs