## directions for health. future, and haftneth on old age and death. sperme or feede of generation is the onely comiorter of nature, which wilfully hed or loft, harmeth a man more, then if hec should bleed forty times as much. teach me how wineleffe batchelers, and huf- bandleffe matdes, should driue away their vm- cleame dreaming of venery at nights. first, they muft refrain from wine, and ve- nerous imaginations, and not vfe to lye in foft down beds. secondly, they muft addi&them- feluest read the bible and morall philofo- phy. thirdly, they muft exercife often theit bodies. laffly, if none of thefe preuaile, let them vfe the feed of agnus caftus, in english parke feed, and they fhall feele a ftrange effect to follow. ## of bathes. chap. 5. what is the vfe of bathes? old and naturall bathes are greatly exp- cient for men fubie& to rheumes, drop- fies and gouts. neither can i eafily exprefle in words how much good cold bathes doe bring ## of bathes. vnto them that vfe them : howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man diftempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fafting, or through violent exer- cife, prelume to enter into them. ## is bathing of the head wholome? you (hall finde it wonderful expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lee made of afhes. after which, you muft caufe one prefently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountaine water vpon your head. then let your head be dryed with cold towels. which fodaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mighti- ly terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is fittred within the body, baldneffe is kept backe, and the me- mory is quickned. in like manner, wafting of hands often, doth much auaile the eye- fight. ## how (hall a man bethe himfelfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificial ba- thing is very expedient and wholfome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the iuyce of vormwood and wild mallowes, one