30 t arf &f making sucar. tertute, 2 bining inorzy ihitenel:, 2nd {j tran(parent that common may be ted through the thickel part of 2 large loaf icrt cf may be {cented fith different howers, by ftrewing thc fowers on the nvit cloths and renewing them 25 often as the cloths are charged, 2nd twice 2 belide: : the wster, through the cloth _ carries cor with it thole particles of tne eowers in which their fragrance reliucs, and jezres tiem in the li&a relates, thzt trelve hundred of refined {ugar yiell oniy five hundred 2nd forty-lix of {-g2r the french prepzre, in imitzticn of the royal, 3 fort of w hich cail jure tappe: this is no other than the common claved rafped rer} fnebefore dfying; and rammed into {mall moulds which hzrz been pre- viculy moitzned with wzier. this (ort of {ugar looks rery beau-ifal: but a5 i#pirticles hzre no natural uniog, {cparate upon the leaft mvilture, and rui jto melles. 3. of sugar-candy: sugzr-candy is made from the mulcavado or clayed fugers; by diflolving ten in fezk lime water, and aiter due clarification them to cr- fiize or {oot in 2 hot room_ the moulds are furnilhed with a number of {mall {icks laid 2crols for the to {hoot upon tkeir lower aperture is almof cloled, fo 25 to {uffer the part tlich remzins liquid to filter through very fowly. wvhen the luger is {uficiently boiled, it is carried wich 2ll pogible `expedition intozn hot fove; immediately into the moulds, and the {ove rrongly hezted. the luger concretes upon the ficks into cryftaline malles, ofz white or brorn colour; 2ccording 25 the fas pure or impure: a p p e n d i x tke art of fermenting and diltilling melafles, &c. for rum, oi inflammable spirit; i. of tke fermcntaticn cf thc cane fuite in all kinds of freet regetzblejuices zre capable of being converted, by means of acw fermentztion; into ricous liquors, which ma either be prelerved in that fcrm, % mzde to yield by diltillation an infzmmable (pirit ; by a haltv fermen - gzioc; or 2 low one continued, are changed into vinegars;. the native juice of th2 cane, %5 it is eminentl; fiveet,is likerile in 2 particular manner dzuled z0 ferment; but without & greai deal of addre{s runs, beyond the 0f tizous fermentztion; into 20 zcetous {ate. after it has undergone- a degree of it become: lefs {uiceptible of thele changes ; and does not ferment readily withoutthe 2ulance offuch matters 2s promote this operation fuch is the gower o5 bead which arile: upon equors fermentatiol, e<. here print tnis {ug2r filtering d25 {ugar. pounds roj2l. (ugar fegar the] they {etting {ug21 poured kept {ugr general. lorg they jugar procefs 6te, during