fhort & time = bhit 3ror {ohee tnkhpof reyou nay depend _ i do not know but you may find in 2 lilt fome people that you look for ; and it would bew eli if you made publication of it in one of the comon mr: i make no doubt will do it for and it janeway, or mr. curtis, people that have loft yol; may be fo notified, a5 that any of thofe tisfadtion their children, may underftand whither to repaif foxole if you know no better a way you might do well to mr: f0 hn wilmo re in fewen-ftreet, who is apply your' felf to all the tricks of thole rafcals: a planter himtelf, and knows befides thatihe isa man of bulinels in the city, & acquaintance, & true protefant, and if iam not miftaken a common-council- man. heeis very induftrious and charitable belide ; and if there {hould be heis &$ likely to allift you asany man [ know tho it were to as far occafion; upon the errand, to fave a poor child from and go as the to you,than that if you have his friendlhip; he can tell all 1 need fay no more pan how take up children; you the ways of the tra- have for the inviegle them away, and the conveieances child was of them: thele kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a ready to be eaten up with vermin and took him in that could not get of or perfuade him to coole bick it (ompeffion he were ready to into the sea wherefore muft may thd examine the mater ; {0 the reft i leave you get 2 difcreet juftice to to your difcretion: little will takes to his bulinefs very well ; and his friends will have fort of him: pray commend me to all my friends and com- ncightoarhood 1nd pardonua fuulto a fony got fniediatel takguaiytaace o your and sublcribe my felf your affectionate kinlman and servant' my leave of you; t m if any_perlon named in the lil;, ihall be found to have been spirited notice may be left with mr: walter in amen-corner who' will diredtions how to make & further enquiry: give the number of whites: the number of whites that i. jofeph ruffel. dyed in my time 2. william burne. tbomas_ hugbs. 3 sballitoe: peter peterfon. urban _ fohn gwartwrite. 8 andrew reddal tbomas davies: william polliard. samuel hodgley: 3; richargrgev; sold in my time: richard sevitor: 8 rrichato sebitoz:' thomas martin. thomas barber. 1 9. fames durham- io. frencb. free: ii. thomas woodcock: william ward. ricbard barret. total of thewhites ii- loft at law with fountains famaica, decemb. 30. i 6 8 i, 12013 yet story milling again paper unhappy news papers good large hope want, slavery; they - they 'concealing they they quit him, be, jeap ihope good following away davis, george rony- george