west indies. '79 th und fuddenly to abolifh the exiltence of the com- to merce would not be produdtive of real difadvanta- ey ges, in place of effecting the end defired by thofe ed who are eager for fuch ftrong and ipeedy mealures ? lad for folving this important queftion, we mult take b- into view, not only the fituation of the flaves in ly africa, but of thole already in the weft indies. rds in the firf place, it is falle realoning to fuppole of that britain, withdrawing her {hare from the che ral demand, will effec a decreafe of the quantity brought to the market; for although in other kinds dia of commerce the fupply is generally regulated by ves. the demand, in this inftance the rule will not ilt- hold: when two african ftates are at war, the an are dealt with in proportion to their ftrength 1 ior - and appearance. the old and infirm are maflacred the on the {pot ; {uch as are able to travel a 1 der journey: are led to the {ea-coaft, and of thefe all who are rejedted are immediately to death. ine from this it appears, that were britain to withdraw 5 me her demand, there would be left a fuperabundance 9 ] lly of about 38,000 every year; who, unlels bought up by other nations, muft inevitably be facrificed to 9 the difappointed avarice of the black trader: in- 9 8 {ees. {tances, indeed, of this barbarous pradtice are {o 82 'fore numerous, that they have been frequently perpe- trated in fight of our own {hipping ; {0 that in this s 3boue cale the remedy becomes abundantly more horri- and- ble than the dileale. iow? j ons; secondly, let an unprejudiced mind reflect upon tle fituation of the remaining negroes, in the wel c z ij ji 1 ji digitized by original from internet archive university of alberta gene - yet captives long put