(824) ln primo avwlfo non d-fcit alter aurer , fmili frondefcit virga metallo . the whole complex of ingredients is known to conlif only 0f vutgir 4qua fortis abltracted from two parts ol vitriol, and one of salt-peter) and quick-flver,and fmall qu - of silver, far lefs than you may reapin a imall time from thofe silver-(prigs ; yet there is none, there being more expences blown away into imoak by continuance of frein one month, than can berecover'd from this silver-harvelt ina longer time. and though this feem but a yet 'tis very philolophical,much informing the unders however it enrich not thepurle; for here we fee crude merck- rj manifellly turnd into notwithltanding 'tis denyd by [o ma- ny: so far this generows obferver for this time ; with the lal part of whole relations may be compared numb. 39. p.779,,780. tis hopd that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerningboth the subjed, he hath here begun to dilcourfe 0f, and others of a philofophical nature, will be further comunicated by him; an account of fome particulars, referring to thofe of jamaica, numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the yourger , an eje - witnefs. llegator: are fhipd like lizzards, being four footed they_walk with their belly at diftance from the ground, like lizzards thole of full growrh, have teeth like a maliff anda mouth of 1' toot wide; are of fo (cent,that you may imell them at & pretty diltance, when they lie on the land. they may be mafter'd and killd by ran %& dich erous and skill d inthe way of doing which is, that a manbe arm with good tronchion,and fall gpon them lde-wayes ; for doing it front- wyes, are too nimble for the allailant,and by leaping upon which cando thele:ghof their whde edody3 bpoazbin but if he hayhis club on them their fhoulder,and behind their fore-feet, and iime them th: beal thereby rendred ur: ible to move; is fubdued, 2, tortoifes if their blood be heated they dye and if fhall live _ their blood mult nor be hotter than the element live 3. the s delcribed by ligom,are not felc to have got in q thz body;till & wcek after. breed in great numbers, and fhut them- felves intity == gain toy,. ftanding? silver , otrong they ic, long him, ehey they ' againft eafily being there, they they in. chgo wili they'