454 of india in generall,uc. holdthe worldto be crcated corruptible; round, ruled bythe high god wi tehekcho ima to hzue bccnethe bcginning of makingtheworlds 'ndthat ber the fourc elcments, thcre isaffth narure , whcrcof the hcaucn and stamres corci intreate of thcimmortalitic ofthc soule,and of che tormcnts in hclland fuch like mattcr. thc indiaa the : gannneaanothcr order ofrcligiousor learnedmcn, are honorcdemond grmanct: them: cfpecialsy luch of chem as liucin the woods, and ofthe woods, bothforta dict of thofe wilde fruits , andthcir habit of the barkes of trccs, not acqusintcde baccbu or uenmany morc thcn with cres. fpcake not tothc #ke counfdllofchem but by mcdlengcrs ; and doc the angric god5,*islte fed by thcir holindlle , next in honor to thcle, arc ccrtainc mendicant , which liuc of rice jbd which any man at thcfirl givcch them, with cntertainment itat oules. thele skillin phylicke endtorcmedic dilcales,wound and (cnkj; vcry conftant in labourand ihardhhip. ochcrsthcre are,inchantcrs and m acrs of ccrcmonics aboutthc dcad ; which wandcrthorow towncs and citica. soat thereare morc ciuilland fccular;inthcir lifc profcflicg likc picticand holincllc, wo mcn alloare admittcd vnto the fellowlhip ofthcir ftudics in thi: philolophic; na b thcir bcds: ariftobulns writcth, that he (jwtwo of thcle brachmanen thc oncanoh man lhaucn,thcother yong wich = haire,which fomctimcs rclorted to thc marli placc, and wcrehonorcd # counfeliors, and frcely tookc what, plealed, ofmq] thcreto bc (old, forthcir fultenance. wcrc annointed wich scfamioecyk whcrcwith,and with | rcmpered thcir wcrc adinittedto at: praeife of anders table, whcre- (gaue icllong 0f pariencc ! : endafrer going to placenatk prelcribed pi oe,the oldmnan lying downe with his ficc vpiard , fultainedche sunnc ind ticnce. rcrriblc violence ' theyongcr (tanding on onc heldinboth his hands a peraed ivoodof chrce cubits lilted vp,and fhifccd fccte, asthc othcr was wcaric: end lody continucd cucry thayong = man recurncd homc aftcrward, buc thc old mmn @ lowedthe with whom he changcd his habit and lifc, for which, whcn ukr by (omc rcproucd, he anfweredthathe had fulflled thc fortic cxcrcilc, wia hehadvowed: oncfarite [aith,that alexandar, of fomc rcligious oblcruig m the like which wencnaked,and crcrciled thcmlelucstomuch hardhhip,and would # not (ec: fubbornncde t0 ochcrs; bur would bid mcn, wouldhauc any with thcm , t0 concw iyet in their them; him vnto thcmn, who found fifccne of thcm) !wcntic fromtkg fozhics: cach ofthem oblcruing his owne of ftanding;, cr lyingnsked u nof (irringrill sun- in that vnlupportable ar which titne {ictured inco thc cicic. calanw wisonc of thcm hc aficrward followcd alexandat into pa fia, wherc bcginningto be fcke,he cauled a grearpile orframeof woodto bcnd whcrcin hc placed bimlelfe in . chairc,and cauled fircto bc put to,in whichk was voluntarily conlumcd , (fthey tell true) thathe would mcct alexanke # elia. va. babylon, the pace fatallto alexanders dcarh. ielianm fith, that this was dor b 1 $ .cap.6. ina uburb of babylor , andthatthe fire was of ccdar, cyprcflc mirtle, laurell orhcr lwcct woods : and aftcr bc had performcd his daily excrcilc of running; hcph ced himfelfeinthc middcl, crowncd withthc lcaucsof fccdes, thc sunnc fhining w him , which hc worlhirped. thisadoration was thc figne which he gaue to th mt cedonians to kindlethc in which hcabode withour any till hic wasdait; mlexandr him lelfe and preferring this of caianm before sllle ownc. this calanu told oncjicritu of a world; whcre mcale was # [koi: full as dult,and fountaines (trcamed winc and oyle which counticy,b mcn turned into wantonncllc ixpiter altercdand lifc ofhardne and labour; which whilc mcn followcd, thcy cnioyedabundance nowthx e begin to furfcrand gtow difobedicnt,chcrc i$ of vniucrfll dcftrudtion whan hchad thus (pokcn;hc badchim,if he would hcarc furthcr, arip himlelfe; and iye # arr . callcth kcd vpon thcle doncs. but mandanis, another ofthem, reproucd calanm jrhi hu dindans. harfhncs,and, commending alexander forhis louc to icarning; fidthacthey= lb;7 . thcir bodics to labour forthe confrmation of thcir mniuds= for bisn> kcdns cuapl ginc thsyi 0q they' kings " ~whentq pacific= bulz togcther asking into t profclla = diuincn; long they = thicbrcad: thing hony; 5 thsy 5 they' they e ((hont foor, dsy; kiog; ycjigs hcaring = ifthcy thing furlongs (cnt gclturc gcting; tic," heace, ~(ctting; thcy" golden telling 6re," qirring admniring: victory goldcn= milke, hony; dicncincd impofngur danger murd pallions = againf =