directions for the sugar plums. 245 160 worms often keep in such sugar ill health, that no body can tell what they ail (little dreaming, it to be from worms) till they see these worms to come away alive, in the, close stool, by the famous purging sugar plums, which are innocent, and safe, as a little manna, or rhubarb, or, 2. or 3. <gap/> stewed prunes, with sena. an <gap/> there are no worms at all., there is <gap/> aucther such a thing this day in the world again, for a most delicate fine purge, where a fine safe purge may be wanted -- to free the body of foul humours, and thereby cure its distempers. as is daily experienced in famillies..... so that, a. few penny worths. only of these plums will save a deal of charges in physick and. preserve more lives, then half the physick in town, can recover. common, suggar plums at the confectioners, are indeed bigger than these, but for colour. taste &c. these may be eaten by children, like a common sugar plum. or. like any sweet meat you can give the child to please it. --or, you may bruise and dissolve them like a bit of loaf sugar, in a little tea, milk, beer, gruel, &c. and so take them, which is a very good way signs of worms, are—a big belly, which, these rare little sugar plums. presently, take down, and the children are soon quite well pale looks, hollow eyes, stinking breath, itching of the nose, which makes children often rubbing it, unequal sleep, with startings, and crying out. in looseness, coughing, gripes & pining away. pain and sickness at stomach. lnclining to vomit. a great appetite, and craveing for victuals frequently crying restless and uneasy, & no body can tell with or what they all or would have, or what to give them for ease. whenever than a child is out of order, let it immediately, and out of hand, eat one only of these plums. and if but eaten 3 time will save a deal of charges in physick, & recover more children from illnese than loads of other physick. country shop keeprs through out the whole kingdom, sell a deal of these gum openning remedies and plums which proves so very quick a return that they still send to templebar for more & more of them. and what is not sold, are returned at any time. and any order shall be immediately delivered to any carrier, stage coach, waterman, or correspondents, you shall please to order, to any part of the kingdom these sugar plums presently cure an agues, and intermitting fever, the head ach, cholick, gripes rhumatism thickness of hearing, sickness and pain at stomach dropsy, green sickness, want of appetite, coughs, and short breath, giving immediate ease and easy breath. one only of these little plums (of a penny) is enough to bring these worms with foul & gross humours away from a child of 2 or 3 years old -and half a plum for younger children. two plums given to a child of 4. 5. or 6. years old, to bring worms away, thre plums, to one of 8. 9, or 10. years old, for a fine safe purge. and manor woman, may take 4. 5. or 6. of them when they want to be finely purged, and to have foul humours out of their body. and after every working, by which you'l see a load of foul humours, as green as grass, drink a deal of warm broth, water gruel, ale or tea, the more you drink the better they will work if not given stools enough add a plum next time the only harm of a plum more for a dose would only be a stool or two the more. missing a day or two between each, these plums should be taken 3 times because once only takeing does not purge out of the body all the worms, and foul humours, and may be taken any weather heat of frost.