130 of canzonets. booke ll. away i wast with reares by night in vaine, teares, sighes by night, by day encrease this paine. mine eyes no eyes, but fountaines of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moyst my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my feares, my feares no feares, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my feares, my heart, my teares, mine eies are blinde, dride, spent, past, wasted with my cries. and yet mine eies, though blind, see cause of griefe, and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine: and yet my heart, though spent, attends reliefe. and yet my feares, though past, encrease my paine. and yet i live, and living feele more smart, and smarting, cry in vaine, breake heavy heart. xxxii. canzonet. desires gouernment. where wit is over-ruld by will, and will is led by fond desire, there reason were as good be still, as speaking, kindle greater fire, for where desire doth beare the sway, the heart must rule, the head obay. what bootes the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to shape their course: when booke ii. of canzonets. when he that steers will have his will, and drive them where he list pe force. so reason shewes the truth in vaine, where fond desire as king doth raigne. xxxiii. canzonet, lones properties. twixt heat and cold, t'wixt death and life, i freeze and burne, i live and die: which ioyntly worke in me such strife, i live in death, in cold i fry. nor hot, nor cold, nor live, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. first burning heate sets all on fire, whereby i seeme in flames to fry: then cold despaire kils hot desire, that drenched deepe, in death i lye. heate driues out cold, and keepes my life, cold quencheth heate, no end of strife. the lesse i hope to have my will, the more i feele desire encrease, and as desire encreaseth still, despaire to quench it doth not cease. so live i as the lampe, whose light oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. living k 2