368 wits common part. 2. as the æthiope cannot change his skin, nor the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not possible to gather grapes of thornes, or figges of thistles: so it is to no purpose to force any thing to strive against nature. as in tilling of the ground and husbandrie, there is first chosen a firtile soile, then a cunning sower, then good seed: even so we must compare nature to the fat earth, the expert husbandman to the schoolemaster, the faculties and sciences to the pure seeds. as the fertill soile if it be never tilled doth wax barren: so that which is most noble by nature, is made most vile by negligence. as the torch turned downeward is extinguished with the selfe same waxe, which was the cause of his light: so nature turned to unkindnesse is quenched by those meanes it should bee kindled, leaving no branch of love, where is found no roote of humanitie. newes. part. 2. wealth. 369 newes. as cookes wish for a plentifull breed of cattell, and fishers of fishes: so busie brained innovaters doe hunt after newes, and innovation in states. plut. as wee set up meate from cats and dogges: so we must take heed, what we speake before newes mongers, and insinuating intelligencers. idem. as our bodies are more indangered by the spring, & in autume, by reason of change: so all noveltie doth offend and hurt the common-wealth. as change of meate, drinke and aire doth offend, albeit it be into like, or into better: so it is better still to retaine our old princes and magistrates, then to gape for new, because all innovation is full of danger and disturbbance. as apion called homer from the dead, for none other cause, but to know from what parentage he was descended: so many take great paines, and bestow much cost, onely to heare newes, and know novelties. plin. lib. 30. cap. 2. re r 5.