of india in generall, &c. chap.i. they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. water they imagine to have beene the beginning of making the world; and that besides the foure elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heaven and starres consist. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. 454 k the indian germanes. the k germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored amongst them: especially such of them as live in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of those wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more then with ceres. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by messengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is supposed, by their holinesse. next in honor to these, are certaine mendicants, which live of rice and barky which any man at the first asking giveth them, together with entertainment into their houses. these professe skill in physicke, and to remedie diseases, wounds, and sterility; very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanters and diviners, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more civill and secular, in their life professing like pietie and holinesse. women also are admitted unto the fellowship of their studies in this philosophie, not to their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of these brachmanes, the one an old man shaven, the other yong with long haire, which sometimes resorted to the marketplace, and were honored as counsellors, and freely tooke what they pleased, of any thing there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were annointed with sesamine oyle, wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to alexanders table, where they gave lessons of patience 1: and after going to a place not far off, the old man lying downe with his face upward, sustained the sunne and showers terrible violence. the yonger standing on one foot, held in both his hands a peece of wood of three cubits lifted up, and shifted feete, as the other was wearie: and so they continued every day. the yong man returned home afterward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by some reproved, he answered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercise, which he had vowed. onesicritus saith, that alexander, hearing of some religious observants, which went naked, and exercised themselves to much hardship, and would m not come to others, but would bid men, if they would have any thing with them, to come to them; sent him unto them, who found fifteene of them twentie furlongs from the citie, each of them obseruing his owne gesture of sitting, standing, or lying naked, and not stirring till sun-setting, in that unsupportable heate, at which time they returned into the citie. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into persia, where beginning to be sicke, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himselfe in a golden chaire, and caused fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander at babylon, the place fatall to alexanders death. aelianus n faith, that this was done in a suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cypresse, mirtle, laurell, and other sweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercise of running, he placed himselfe in the middest, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne shining on him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the signe which he gave to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any stirring till he was dead; alexander himselfe admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told onefieritus of a golden world, where meale was as plentifull as dust, and fountaines streamed milke, hony, wine and oyle. which countrey, by men turned into wantonnesse, iupiter altered and detained, imposing a life of hardnesse and labour, which while men followed, they enioyed abundance; but now that men begin to surfet and grow disobedient, there is danger of universall destruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, strip himselfe, and lye naked upon these stones. but mandanis, 9 another of them, reproved calanus for his harshnes, and, commending alexander for his love to learning, faid that they inured their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds against passions. for his nakednes 1 practise of prescribed patience. m the like stubbornnesse is yet in their joghies. n aelian. var. bahb 5. cap. 6. 6 arr. calleth him dandanis. lib. 7.