184 the suffering, or, passive conscience. cap. 13. eccl. hist. l. 5. cap. 1. socrat. hist. 1.3. cap.13. theodoret lib. 3. cap. 6. some were hanged, some headed, some were burned, some drowned, some devoured of wilde beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more savage then beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoyced they suffered for conscience, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice bayted with wilde hearts, to be torn in pieces by them, (as eusebius reports) attalus escaping the beasts, was reserved to other torments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did hee bear all. macedonius, theodulus, and tatianus laid upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus arethusius was stripped naked, then had his bodie all overdaubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and stung to death with wasps, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in his diocess, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and stung with wasps he did account farre more desirable, that he might preserve his conscience in puritie and peace, then to bee eaten up of horrour, and stung with hornets, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopt up in lakes, or caves artificially made close, which lakes, or ditches were filled with a companie of dormise, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and the suffering, or, passive conscience. 185 cap.13. mag. cent. 4. cap. 3. ex theodoreto. latrones, & robusti corporis viri ejusmodi lacerationes perferre nequeunt, exclamant, & gemitus edunt; nostri autem (ut de viris taceam) pueri, & muliercule tortores suos taciti vincunt, & expromere illis gemisum nec ignis potest. lact. i. 5. cap. 13. but and foot, that they could not keep off those hunger-starved creatures, which were kept without meat also purposely, that they might fasten upon the bodies of those godly men; which lingring and miserable death they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the historian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lake artificially stopt, and to be eaten up alive with those vermin, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this fort of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horrour of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an infernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stopt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lactantius saith not onely the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our woman, and little children (saith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could fetch so much as a groan from them: which the stoutest theeves and malefactors among their persecutors could not undergo, but they would roare and crie out through impatience, and disabilitie to endure them.