478 suburbs without the wals. in this plot of ground, there was (in that yeere) more than 50000. persons buried, as i have read in the charters of edward the third. also i have seene and read an inscription fixed on a stone crosse, some time standing in the same church-yard and having these words: anno domini, 1349. regnante magna pestilentia, consecratum fuit hoc coemiterium, in quo & infra septa praesentis monasterii, sepulta fuerunt mortuorum corpora, plusquam quinquaginta millia, praeter alia multa abhinc usque ad praesens, quorum animabus propitietur deus, amen. bull of pope clement. charterhouse. churchyard prepared of the poore of poore so to remaine for ever. in consideration of the number of christian people here buried, the said sir walter manny caused first a chappell to be builded, where (for the space of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above 100000. bodies of christian people. had in that church-yard beene buried, for the said knight had purchased that place for the buriall of poore people, travailers, and other that were diseased, to remaine for ever ; whereupon, an order was taken, for the avoyding of contention betweene the parsons of churches and that house, to wit, that the bodies should bee had unto the church where they were parishioners, or dyed, and after the funerall service done, had to the place where they should be buried. and the yeere 1371. he caused thereto bee founded an house of carthusian monkes, which he willed to be called the salutation, and that one of the monkes should be called prior, and he gave them the sayd place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chappel, and houses there builded for their habitation. he also gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of westminster, and the lands of the prior of saint iohn; which three acres being purchased, inclosed, and dedicated by ralph stratford, bishop of london, as is aforeshewed, remained till our time, by the name of pardon church-yard, & served for burying of such as desperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, vse for the fryery catt. who were fetched thither usually in a close cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white crosse thwarting, and at the fore-end a s. iohns crosse without; and within a bell ringing by shaking of the cart, wherby the same might be heard when it passed, & this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to s. iohns, and had the priviledge of sanctuary. in this charter-house were the monuments of the said sir walter manny, and margaret his wife, marmaduke lumley, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward hederset, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame johan borough, iohn dore, want water, knight, robert olney, esquire, katharine, daughter sir william babington, knight, blanch, daughter to hugh waterton, katharine, wife to iohn at poot, daughter and heire to richard lacie, william rawlin, sir john lenthaine, and dame margaret his wife. daughter to john fray, john peake esquire, william baron, and william baron, esquires, sir thomas thawites knight, philip morgan, bishop of ely, 1434. in the cloystrie, bartholomew rede, knight, maior of london, buried 1505. sir john popham, &c. this monastery, at the suppression in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 642.l. 4.d. halfe penny yeerely. the worthie remebrance of m. thomas sutton here now i find fit time, to commend to all succeding posterity, the duely deserved praises of that truely worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, master thomas sutton, the right phœnix of charity in our times. this late dissolved charter-house, by west smithfield, belonging then to the right honorable thomas earle of suffolke, after lord treasurer of england, is sufficiently knowne to bee a very large and goodly mansion, beautified with spacious gardens, walkes, orchards and other pleasures, enriched with divers dependencies of lands and tenements therto belonging, and very aptly seated for wholesome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodiousnesse of situation, and largenesse of circuit, gave occasion to this well-minded gentleman master sutton, to affect that house, as the onely place, whereon to build i have truely let downe all this, as it was delivered mee in writing by a gentleman of good worth and credit. suburbs without the wals. 479 his first purpose at hallingburies in affix. now hee intended to rename the hospitall. the charter house more necessary for an hospital, than hallingbury build the foundation of his religious purpose. for, among other his christian determinations, hee had formerly intended to build an house at hallingbury bouchers in essex, to be an hospitall for such poore men and children as he himselfe (in his life time, or future governors for the same to bee deputed) should thinke fit to bee lodged and relieved there: also, for a schoole- master and usher, to teach children to reade and write, and instruct them in the latine and greeke grammar: with a learned divine likewise to preach the word of god to them all and a master beside, to governe all those people belonging to that house. to this blessed end and purpose, hee had procured (by earnest suit) power by an act of parliament, to build such an hospitall in the towne of hallingbury bouchers, and that the same should be named, the hospitall of king iames, founded in hallingbury in the countie of essex, at the humble petition, and at the onely costs and charges of thomas sutton, esquire: appointing also such honourable, reverend and worthy persons, as by the said act of parliament were nominated and appointed, to bee the first and instant governors of the lands, possessions, goods and reveneues of the said hospitall. but afterward, upon more grounded deliberation, and finding this goodly house of the charter-house, to bee much more convenient for the purpose, than that to be builded at hallingbury could be: hee became an earnest suiter to the earle of suffolke, to purchase that house of him, acquainting his honor with the alteration of his minde concerning hallingbury, and his earnest desire to make the charter-house his hospitall. the earle being honourably enclined to so godly a motion, the matter sustained the lesse debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargaine and sale was assured. the summe disbursed for this purpose, amounted to 13000, l. which was paid downe in hand, before the ensealing of the conveyance. then he became suiter againe to his majestie, to performe all that at the the first governors appointed by letters patents, of king james his hospitall, founded in the charterhouse. charter-house, which he had formerly intended at hallingbury: whereto the king readily yeelded, being graciously affected to so charitable a worke, and granted his letters patents to the same effect. and the right reverend father in god, george, archbishop of canturbarie, thomas lord ellesmere, lord chancellor of england; robert lord high treasurer of england; john the elect bishop of london ; lancelot bishop of ely; sir edward coke, knight, chiefe iustice of the common pleas; sir thomas foster, knight, one of his majesties justices of the common pleas; sir henry hobard, knight and baronet, attourney generall; iohn overall, deane of pauls in london; george mountaine, deane of westminster; henry thursby, esquire, one of the masters of the chancerie; geffrey nightingale, esquire ; richard sutton, esquire; iohn law gentleman ; thomas browne, gentleman; and the master of the hospitall of king iames, founded in the charter-house, within the county of middlesex, at the humble petition, and the onely costs and charges of thomas sutton, esquire, were elected, nominated and ordained by the kings most excellent majestie in his letters patents granted, to bee the first governors of the lands, possessions, revenues and goods of the fore-said hospitall, continuall maintenance thereof in forme following. all his mannors and lordships of southminster, norton, little hallingbury, alias hallingburg bouchers, and much- stanbridge, in the county of essex. all those his mannors and lordships of bastingthorpe, alias, bustingthorpe and dunnesby in the county of lincolne. all those his mannors and lordships of salthorp, alias, saltrop, alias, haltrop, chilton and blackgrove, in the county of wilts. and also all those his lands & pasture-grounds, called blackgrove contayning by estimation 200. acres of pasture, with the appurtenances in blackgrove and wroughton, in the said county of wilts. and also in that his mannor of missenden, otherwise called the mannor of missunden, in the parishes of wroughton, lydierde and the lands made over by master sutton for the maintenance of the said hospitall for ever, in the county of essex. in the county of lincolne. in the county of wilts. lands & pasture grounds in wilts. in the counties of cambridge, es sex and middlesex