70 directions for health. sture, and hastneth on old age and death. sperme or seede of generation is the onely comforter of nature, which wilfully shed or lost, harmeth a man more, then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how wivelesse batchelers, and husbandlesse maides, should drive away their uncleane dreaming of venery at nights. first, they must refraine from wine, and venerous imaginations, and not use to lye in soft down beds. secondly, they must addict themselves to read the bible and morall philosophy. thirdly, they must exercise often their bodies. lastly, if none of these prevaile, let them use the seed of agnus castus, in english parke seed, and they shall feele a strange effect to follow. of bathes. chap. 5. what is the use of bathes? cold and naturall bathes are greatly expedient for men subiect to rheumes, dropsies and gouts. neither can i easily expresse in words how much good cold bathes doe bring of bathes. 71 unto them that use them: howbeit with this caveat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man distempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fasting, or through violent exercise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholsome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lee made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountaine water upon your head. then let your head be dryed with cold towels. which sodaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mightily terrifie you, yet nevertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the memory is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much availe the eyesight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall bathing is very expedient and wholsome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the iuyce of wormwood and wild mallowes, one ounce f 4