34 gods word the safest guide. john. 7.7.1. john 5.19.1. cor. 7. 31. the life of faith very difficult to nature. cannot hate them, but him it hated: the reason followeth, not for iniury but for innocency, not for falshood but for truth: he testified that the workes thereof were evill. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so smal account, but because the world of the unregenerate lieth in wickednes, and faith to carnall affections bringeth little contentment? how can it be that oppressours extortioners, usurers, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertaine the gospell: since zaccheus must divide his goods, mathew must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must use this world as if they used it not? how hard therefore will it be for such as trust in uncertaine riches, to subiect themselves to this life of faith? may not gods ministers take up a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to everlasting blisse plainly beaten foorth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how sluggish are our common professours, that cannot watch one houre? gods word the safest guide. 35 old naturall men are very miserable, for they are full of sinnes. houre? and how faithlesse are those backsliding hypocrites, as if the unchangeable poffessour of heaven and earth were unfaithfull, or unable to recompence and fully reward his faithfull peoples? thus we see, that streight is the way, and small is the number that go it. ephraim is an unruly heifer that will not be tamed. ever have gods saints bene like the shaking of an olive after the vintage. wicked men are mad men, they will not be ordered; they are deafe men, they will not heare, charme the charmer never so wisely. if that he sinne which is not done of faith, how wofull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor beleeve, being blinde and dissolute: having from their nonage to their old age wandred from the waies of god, being seven fold more the children of hell then they were in their mothers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were never enlightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driven me into such a narrow streight, & so paled me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the novelties of the athenians,