u. ‘ i a k: early engiish books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library 934 _ an texts of them with your [wife , and {3;an them .wuh ,salt, nutmeg, ' e e e einﬁde with yolks of eggs, wth the out-e fiele .of your veal therewithand lay wu'han your pork 5 e laﬂlyﬁrbw on your re-e loam-mg .feafooing, and rowl it up hardy had .5 _i.t ‘witll.*1“,ape= ;gth3,i,l it :is. .boil’d, ,- foace h.111 fome oﬁthelfame liquof, with g ' little leﬁgat, beaten pepper and gingeri .. when—you {ewe it; up, ﬂick your park with ‘ ﬂagrleaves or rofemary and flowers, gar} milling your dilh with elowm and e 538?... . e r : .e - ‘ e rewribpaﬂﬁkee‘d; e .e ‘e e‘ _ .=§§ut-t,he head mas-witho— and aft oi ghe nee}; adjoyning to‘ip, andg boil ft with 5.3 .-;s.k1;o on a good. while a when it is ehrquhly hailed; .( which will‘reqpim f conﬁderable time) take it ligand pluckﬂ$ e theskm, then also broth you have boil~ e 6d_ {ozoe froth meat in, and‘rboil it overa. e gamma-h vinegagsalt, a good handful of mtﬁtiﬂcrbs, ginger, bepper, a good piece- ‘ eﬁ hﬂffer-i‘addiﬂl root {creped'a andaiqoarr; ' mﬁ - 3 pound of frencobarkymbeing ” 2991,3691, (train them through aghagsgﬁnd: {pace the head in it; you may [owe it 1 and havmg .er waihﬁ .1393; pox-k o‘iﬂh; 5m ' ‘- ginger , ﬂied-nutmeg, men; ﬂamb- 123 5 up either in ﬂices, .or whole with the horn-s ‘ $275k: bf ilemb ﬁrmed. , bone your ﬁde of lamb , {oak if: and fqneeze it won from the blood, wipe-1t dry? and feafon the inﬁde with beaten 'nut. meg , ginger, iome meet herb? minced fmall, whole coriander-feed, minced le- monrpill' and salts laﬁly, fome (hoes of broad lard over all: then rowl it up in a collar, and tye it up in: a clean. cloth , put it into your liquor when it boils, and - (can; it very-well, and then out no {heed ' salt, rope! and parﬂey motes ' bein almoﬁ 19038.5: pl": 1“ aquart of- white -wme,r when at 1‘3 enough take it off, and put in ﬂices of lemon, with the pill of two whole lemons; boil it clofe cove-mi to make the veal _ look white." - thus=you may order a break of veal,‘ . or any ioynt of mutton , kid. , fawn or venifon. ' e swan eouer’d. bone your swao3 and part the tfvo fit-165, feafon it according to the foregomg due:- etio'ns in the fencing of geefe; feafotgtse ‘ w1