[389] lix. aﬂronomz’cal oéfervatians made at :63 iﬂcmd of barbados 5 at willoughby fort ;. and at the odfer‘vatary on conﬁitution hill, dot/j dqi/biﬁiﬂg to bridge town. by nevil mafkelyne, 14. m fellow of tri- nity college, cambridge, cmd f. r. 5'. [read december 20, 1764.] n. b. all the obfervations of the full fatellite of jupiter were made wire a two foot reﬂeétor made by mr. bird, having an aperture of 3 1% inches in diameter, except where they are marked as made with my 18 inch reﬂeélor made by mr. short, having an aperture of four inches and an half in diameter. and the eclipfes of the other fatellites were all obfcrved with the 18 inch telefcope, except a few marked as made with mr. bird’s two foot reﬂeétor. the las- titude of willoughby fort is 13.° 5’ n. and that of the ob- f'ervatory i3.° 5.’ 15” n. this agrees with the latitude 1 ob. ferved when our {hip came to anchor at our ﬁrll: arrival in carlille bay, which, carefully calculated, and reduced to st. michael’s church, gives 13.° 5.’ 30" for its latitude. the obfervatory is about 200 yards due eaft of the church, and willoughby fort is about 1600 feet diﬁant from the fame, bearing s. w. so that the obfervatory is about 15" of ion— gitude, or 1” of time to the eaft of willoughby fort. the latitudes of willougbby fort and the obfervatory, fet down above, refult from altitudes of the fun taken with a bafon of quicksﬁlver by the brafs hadley’s {extant made by mr. bird, being calculated from them, and the apparent time known from equal altitudes of the fun taken with the equal altitude inﬂrument. at,