(2) wit own people in england, and pr] three times the pritefor it; they make the return of all their induﬁry and labour to us; this is the center of their wealth, the plate where the] in} it up, and where their "ojlert'ty [pend it ; therefore to burthen them, is to ruin the molt proﬁtable and mol’t indullrious part of our own body. but ’tis obieé‘ted, that though thil' he true, it dot: net appear that laying a but} on their goad: here ran he a burthett or rain to the/r i trade, it heing rttir'd here not there, and paid h] the im- p/j‘ter’, and to him again it] the retailer, and at lit/hr} the can- jttmer, in the prtce: of the good: ; all faxes in general heir/gfup- pcjea to he paid h} the left buyer. this were a good argument, if fad experience had not made it app-;r to beat mn’take ; and to convince thole who are of another opinion, hard] he necellary a little to examine the hillory of the trade, and of the lad duty impofed upon it. our sugar trade, in general, is but a young manufaﬁure, and dates its original within the memory of fome perfons now living, and is, perhaps, the greatelt improv’d trade, and the molt proli- table to ”gland, that is, or ever was in the world. the firﬂ caule of its tile was from the indifcretion of the portugue/e, who prelnming upon their being mallets of the sugar-trade in the btaﬂi/i, laid a heavy tax on their own sugar, which encourag’d our llland of katharina, to whom ﬁrl’t the way of making of sugar was diltover'd, to run into the trade; and it has been in vain that the l’artugttefe law tneir error, and have ﬁnce endeavour’d to re~ trieve it. l’nis is in dire& an example, ’tis needlefs to argue it. and whoever knows the sugar-trade, cannot be ignorant, that it is not impolﬁble to be loll by the lime error by which it was ain’d. g inthe reign of the late king fame: an additional duty was laid upon sugar, notwithllanding all the remonﬁrances of the traders and planters to the contrary; and yeteven then nothing but the pretence that the duty wou’d not £1128: the planters but lye on the conlhmer, with a promilé of his majeﬁy to remit it if it prov’d otherwilb, could make it feem tolerable. but when time demonﬁrared the fad effeét it had on the planter, and they applied for relief, they were anfwer’d, ’fwar an unmet:- nerty thing to put hit wajeﬂ} in mind of hi: pramtfe, 'tis true, if bugar was planted and cur’d in england, the duty might lye on the confumer, as in other caﬁss it does; but here the cafe oil-pets exceedingly. the planter is the seller at our market, the merchant here is but the faétor, when the planter ships his sugars for england he con- figns them to his faétor to be sold for him, and generally draws bills upon his faétor for as much as he fuppofes the produce to be, and fometimes more, 'upon [aging the dill] ahovementioned, the experiment war made; the p aor had two ways to manage the sugars and bills, and no more; i. to early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library (3) i. to accept the bills abfolut l . 2. conditionally. ey or, if he accepted the bills abfolutely, he would then fell the goods at the mirltet-price, let it be what it wsuld, to enable him to ggniiplyryntglth: paymentd; and if the produce did not mike it o , t e anter remiin7 deb or ' '1 rctumu upon him. t to the ballance, fo the lofs if he acceptel the bills conditionall , that is to a l goods are fold: if the gnds did notllell in tithe, illdllrilllseiitgti: back protel’red , or elli: were noted, and lay here at intereﬁ and charges. by both which the planter was a conﬁderable lofer both’ in tmhodev antheputation. e uyers ere knowing too well thelé methods oftheir r and that of necelﬁcy the faébr mul’t fell for the reafons afoi'lhlzgd, refuf'ed to advance in price notwithltanding the duty, and with: held’buying by a general conl‘ent, and the conléquence form an; fwerdtheir expaehtion, for the fetter: were forced to fed er the :6: [p7156 ta frtppnrt the credit hath of themﬁtlver and their prin- l d .l'. butfome of the molt conﬁderable fael-ors heinc willi a all pgllible ways for their employers, lhipp’d oil2 greaiidqttigntth tiesror holland, szharttgh, and other parts, but tholb markets being not able to take oil'the qltntities, and the bills {till followinc the goods, to enable the exporter to pay the planters bills and above, the very fame thingr follow‘d abroad, the goods were forced to be fold to railé the money, and the lois fell ﬁrill upon the poor planter. . thus, whoever pays the money, the planter bears the lolé, and 15 left in debt, and conlhquently undone; for ’tis quite another thing to be in debt in the weﬂ-indt’e: than ’tis in england. _ that the planter is not able to bear the duty, at leaﬂ', at this time, 15 the next thing to be proved , and that is as plain as the other. the war which has lall'ed now nine years , has been a general prejudice to all trade, but to the weﬂ-[ndt'e trade in particular: and in the we/t indies. the iﬂands of btrhedaer and jettmitt have been as it were deltin’d to be ruin’d, having beﬁdes the war had a complication of difal’rers, a: the dreadful earth- gzmhe, and the infrtrrefr't‘on of the negraer at jamaica , the loft of three or eortr entire fleet: from barbadoes, by difaller of weather and hurricanes, together with a dt'jtemper hro/tght amongfh them 6; the met: oft/var, little better than the plague, which fwept away great numbers of their inhabitants. alfo they have raifed forces, and ﬁtted out ships at their own charge for lizveral expeditions; and in lhort, belides their loll‘es at sea by the frenr‘h , with the ruin of grear part of 74min: , and sr. chri/laphers, by their dchents, have rail‘ed larger taxes on their ell-ates than has been paid by us at home; h} which mum — there is not half the sugar planted in the \vel’tvindies that nu: 6‘- fore the war. after