( 6:308 ) thefe trees are exceedin ly'diﬂ‘ere‘nt amongl‘t th’é‘ml’elves s forfome moot up in 2 or 3 odies; others in one, as this.their leaves are many of them dead, and molt difeolour’d, nnlefs on very young trees. they are not at all beautiful, nor lo :- greeable to the eye, as the fruit-is to the palate of them that love chocolatto. the number of codds the tree produces, is uncertain : but we reckon, a bearing tree yieldi from 2. to 8 pound of nuts :1 year 5 and each codd contains [tom 20 to go nuts. the mannerof curing them is; to cut them down when they are ripe, and to lay them to {wear 3 or4dayes in the codds 5 which is done by laying them on heaps. alien this they cut the codds, and take out the nuts, and put them into a trough cover’d with plantan—lcaves, where they fweat again about 16 or 20 days. the nuts that are in each codd, are knit together by certain ﬁbres, and-ahave about them a white kind of pulp, that’s agreeable to the palate. by the turning and {wetting their little lirings’are broken,and the pulp is imbibed and mingled with the fubﬂance of the nut. after this, they, .are put to dry 3 or 4 weeks in the sun, and then they become of a reddilh dark col’our , as you fee, and {o are cured, what is remarkable in this fruit is,tha‘t the codds grove on: py out of the body orgreat'limbs and boughs 5 and that at the lime time, and in the fame place,there are bloﬂoms,young and ripe fruit. ’ theft: trees hear at different timesgthe greatefl crepgt molt of our cacao walks is in december and ﬁlanmry: but at one of colonel mdiﬁird: walks,whenee this tree was takenghey bear molt. in may 5 yet its not above 5 miles fromthofe walks, which bear alwaies in december : but thole that bear then, have fome fruit in m495 as the’other have in december. it's planted ﬁrli in the nut, alwaies under (hide: somedo it under caﬁ’me; others, under plantan-tree,and fomein the woods. ' the spaniards nfed a certain large ilhady plant , talk] by them madre dz" cacao : we only th’others ;' and fell- dom tranfplant, only where it fails, asit doth many times in 0‘ gen, pout-and drylands: for, this-tree requires to be {belt tet'd: