pickanif‘nny', nay- husbén'd-and wife, --'.=brodier and? sister, -- ah ! me no bear tink; it break my heart. .. » ce: i thought you'= blacksbad nosuch‘ﬁne feelings. c. me‘ beg your pardon, massa, that be de whites ;. —.- de blacks {all feel.“ 9 ., . . - , '. e. and they havea diﬂiculty to part you, someé tlinléslreckonf. =f‘f ‘ ~‘ .5 =5 0:. :de cur’s’t wi’p do.dét,-.massa. . . . 5 e. you had the luck to meet with a good master, howevergs f ' ' ~‘ = "'- ’ ’; ~ - & .= 1.. c.= dey' say, my massa good‘~massa. e. and'what did he set you to do 5’" . r c.. de overseer, after lie mark us wid red lint iron, send me and goodrmany more to de gang to de season-v i ge. seasoning .’ .vvh-ai’s-that if" - = ‘- . ‘ c. ,0 may éall’ d‘e two ﬁrst. years tie-seasoning, den if we live, dey call us good slave. - ‘ ‘ r; ' = :’ e. does it kill any ofyou then ?:' .’=c..=great many, mass . = . e. what sort, of work did they‘set you to? . _ c. me ﬁeld-slaverme‘work in '(leﬁeld apday, and sometimes tend de’niills at night... 55' ~ e; isiy‘our workvery hard e .. . ' - .= ﬂ l c. very hard, massa, and work great many hours; 1 butnegro no mind dat,'so use well and feede well. - . e. what doyou live on? .' " =5 ' ‘ - ’ .oc. zliicef, horsebeans,_.and sometimes stinking ﬁsh; what white no eat,'l1e give blacké.’ _' ' .e. well; with allyoukhgarclships, your must’acknow- ledge you are better all =than in; your own barbarous country, :full;oflions and tygers’. ; '5 ’ 5 : = ' " g =.c.;but.there,beno negro driver, massal. i, . y. ' = e. keep in bounds, cnslroo; you know-in yourown - country you live under barbarous and petty tyrants, in a wild. unciv-ilized state ; jbut'in the west indies: you are brought to a civilized state, and live. under the pro- teetion of our graciousmsovereign king- gyeorgeg ’; ;} l} - awn“;