[6] ‘btitthc bill {ay’sg faétors [hail no hanger be traded to, than whilft under the protection. of'. thc'ambaﬂ'adot or confuls : to this it» is anfwered, that they mull continue lb for their own. security; otherwife they muff immediately fall into the state of subjects of the sultan, and: muff pay the p011 tax; and as to the-regulations of the company, they will be under [mall qiﬁicultyof fubmittingt to them; for in a little time their nation mult have the forming them. butthls does not f e‘them from their own nation, or exempt them from its jurifdiéiiou, to which they are, the fb'ongeﬁ motives, bound. it. hubecn urged, that thefe enin/b 7m: are in no connexion with thofe of turkey, but will live teparate as englf/bmen: but it is known they are the very fume people; for as well theft, as theft, are generally refugees from italy or spain. and thofe very l’erfons, who have thdught themfelves moﬂf intereiied in the event of this bill, are no more englijbmen, than any conﬁaulimple j‘ew may be at any time by denization. . it is known to all who have lived at aleppo, that the leghorn ytws, who live there under ffairb’pro'teé‘tion, wear their beards, and live and converfe altogether with the 7m: of the place, with whom they intermarry. the chief partner of the 7m; at smyrna, who has been. eited‘in a late cafe,.does the fame at smyrna; and it is known, that they all contribute, in fomc form or other, either by a rate or free gift, to the maintenance of the national poor 5 which is aheavy charge, and many of them have been heard to complain of it as-fudi. several'of the ﬂu): now living at wantimple, and elfewhere, are defcended from fuch as a? ﬂour italy under fome foreign protection ; but, mixing there with their own peo yle, the next "erat’ion'of them became subje&s-of the sultan: the fame thing will no doubt pen with the euglijh yum; and as to fuch of them as may not marry, there are not wanting induce- mum to their conﬁdering themfelves as at home in turkq. ﬁe proteélrion 'ven to stranger ﬁrm, by the ehritiiarrambaﬂ'adors in twig, is very dif- feren' from what e engiflb yam-are to have from: this bill ; for thofe stranger few: are not c’oh'ﬁ‘ e‘te'd as the subjeéts of any one of? the states by whom they are proteéted, but as sub— jeéts of states not in amity with the pom, and who are allowed to refort to tin-kg, under thajﬂroteélion of fame one of the nations eﬁablilhed there: but they are not received into the ciimlliuhlty of any‘of the nations they are under, or have a phce at their national aﬂemblics ; notch] tholl: who are ' ed by mu, who an: the greater number, trade to or from ffpifgj; and, in cafe' any difﬁculties, they are to be helped out at their own particular ex- pénée-“ihey pay their confulage, and? are exempted from being treated as subjeéts of the country; and even in this, their pretenlions are to be treated with great moderation. the‘tﬂrk: allow the protection of their arm subjects by foreign ambaﬂ‘adors, with the commiﬂion of an honorary druggoman in the 'fame manner, and a vizier, or other great minifter, will often ail: this as a favour, in behalf of a ﬁre or cbri/h'an they may be dif— poféfd‘to favour. ‘ 7 the other revlon againlt admitting the ﬂew into the levant company, is, that they will in time; get all the trade into their own hands; but this is the leak inconveniency that can happen 2353:" pro , fed regulation: this apprehenlion is founded folely on the preference they will have ' ‘ their ﬁthren in 1" wig: the large communities 'of 7m: there, have a greatlnﬂuence, which will be employed in favour of their brethren againlt the king’s chriftian subjeﬂ's; and it mutt will beat them down in the end. they are not afraid of the skill or induitry of the 7:71;: ; f , are in every man, asgod‘has given him talents, andhe has employed them: nor are they iﬁprehenﬁve the 7m», by their oeconomy, can go cheaper to market than they; for they have hills. many inﬁanees of vanity and min 1‘ "kg, amongft them, as amongﬁ any other set of feople, and their national expences there mutt be great. there have, indeed, been sug- yons that they could do riﬁneﬁ for left commiﬂion : but this is an abufe; and there was ‘ ly a very ﬂagrant initance at conﬁauiuple, of a ﬂu) houfe, which had pretended to mighty matters of this kind 5 and a great circulation was carried on for fome time, but all ended in a bndalous failure ; the two farmers difap ared; fame of the creditors upon the place got tome- what’in a fort of scramble, but for the igcrdgn correfpmdents, who' were chieﬂy at venice and hm, there was not any thing'left. what, therefore, the king’s chrilh'an subjeéis hope for, is, that they lhall not, by this bill, be put within the reach of a molt undue inﬂuence and pre- ference; which mutt be the cak, if the yaw: come at all into this trade. it