~19 6 beetrft‘ifjing ”eatery,- ail cookers, and core- aﬁinkiog breath, .ondpreforvo thoi‘eeth from rotthnnefs. _ 56. to promo-e our excellent colour and compirxéan :‘nirbr face,zgﬁed - byrbriq-t of 5. , . it: 3 morning faﬂing, half a dozen fpooo- ﬁlls in ale, warm ;__it-wiil procure. otter: {client colour, is good for thoeye—ﬁght, deﬁroyeth worms, and. iszgood for the stomach; liver, and lungs. _ - ‘= .,-' g 7. to kg'elo the 7;:th wig-irrjmd : 'if kg?! worms. take a little salt in a_ morning failing, and hold it under your tongue tilliiiit'ibo1 melted, and then rub your teeth with 53. to procure beauty, #11! '-' rxcrﬂmt waﬂaqi i;...' ; _ take four o-unceo'ofi. subltmater. \and our: game of crude _mercu1;y-,,;iat}§i,ibca} l, '_ ler, and patric”. ._._._....--— ‘97 do it at loof’t ﬁx, or eight hours, then. with often change of cold iwater, take away the [alto from the subhmatc, change our watertwico every day aticoft,_ ani in rotten or eight days it thii be outletﬁod, and then- his prepared; lay. tron with 03!!- ,i . i ii i .- of white poppy. tahﬁthe‘iuicc of hrfibp; rand drinktir . 59. a broorywarrr for the face, it}- _ ﬁfadom g... t i - take-lye that is not too ﬁroog,and put two pools of oranges, and as touch c:- tron-peel, bloﬂ'oms of ctmomtle, bay- leaves, and maiglen-hair, of eacho hood- _ fol, of agrimony two or three ounces, of barley'uitraw chopt in pieoesg.‘ a-hontl eula asmoch fcnugroek, a punt of vroe- . leaves, tworor three handfuls of broom- bloﬂbms ;. putali theft: into the lye, and mingle them together, anti ['0 wiafh the" head therewith, put to it a little ctnamoo: ‘and myrrh, lot it ﬂood, and wafh your _ paco therewith every evening: it is good: to wafh the head, arid to comfort the brain and memory. them together exceeding well in _.a wow“ 1 mortar, and wooden pcftle; you 111103 60. ﬁgdirﬁ i do i " k3 early english books oniine, copyright © 2019 proquest ilc images reproduced by courtesy of bodleian library