, *v—www c 5‘) culture, and husbandry bee maintained and duly kept. . . 8.1’tem,ln every county there {hall be cortonors,high she- riffs,highconliables,petty'conllables,and goalors, who are to do their rtlpcélive ofﬁces as acculiomed; the high sheriff: to be conﬁrmed or nominated by the supreme conncell our ofthree to be prefented by the county councell, and the high sherif’re is required to execute the commands, orders” and decrees ofthe provinciall and county counccll. 9. item, in cities and towns corporate juﬂicc is- to be done, and the lawes executed as is aecuﬂomed. io. ‘item,ln every county the high sheriffe {hall be provofl marlhall , and [hell have power to execute a lay man not burglary, theft, robbery, or other capitall offence, provided the party to be executed may havc foure and twenty hourcs time to prepare his foule; and that the supreme or provin- ciall iclouncell {hall and may name more provoll marihalls, as they {hall think expedient, qualliﬁed with the like autho- rit . :1. item, it is further ordered , that no temporall go- vernmentorjurifdiétiun [hall be afﬁrmed,- kept, 'or exercifcd in this kingdome,or within any county or province thereof, during theie troubles, orher then is before exprelied, except fuch jltirifdié'tion and government as is,or {hall be approved ' ‘ why this generall alfembly, or the supreme councell. ‘ 12.- item, i: is further ordered, that whofoever hath en- ' tred,lince the ﬁrli day of oé‘tober l 641. or {hall hereafter, du- ring the continuance ofthe warre in this kingdom, enter into the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, at or immediately before the ﬁrll day ofoétober, either by him-{elfe or his under tenants, or by receiving the rents, illues, or'proﬁts thereof, ﬁtall immediately reliore, upon demand, the {aid pollellion to 2* 2,... “ '. .‘n'vv . 7mm‘w' ”at: early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library worth ﬁve pounds,andnone other,for murder,man-ﬂaughter, pig? (.7 ) . ‘ to the party or part-ins fophi out, with fuch (cafongbdﬁdoun- wages, as the con-neell provinciallor supreme {hall .thinlr ﬁt; and if the party refufe to tcﬁorc the faid poﬂelﬁon as aforefaid, upon demand of the party‘fo put out, his heites or allignes, made to the {aid poﬂtil'or,his fervants, oradherents in the prem ifes or publication ofthis-order within the pa til}: where {uch land lierh, that upon his or their ideniall‘ thereof, or default therein, he, his heires and alﬁgnes .{hallj bevfor ever after debarred and fecluded from allend, every-“right, title, intereil, and demand which he or they may make orpretend to all or any the {aid lands, tencments,or heteditamcnts ; and if after fuch deniall or default made, the‘faid party, hisghcires or allignes {hall nor immediately rcliorc the pollellion of the {aid lands, tenements , or hereditaments {o vgaiuetho "hf party grieved, his heires or alﬁgues, that he. they, and hi; or their adherents in the premiles, {hell he declared and pro.— cecdcd with as enemies. provided, and {o it ismmnrghat if any of the parties {0- pm: but be declared a neuter or enemy by the supreme or provinciall conner-,1]; then theparty who gained the polfeliion, as aibteihid,(hall givelup the polfeﬂion : ’ to fuch perfon or perfotis as (hell he named either by the {aid councell provinciall,’ or supreme councell,tobe difpofed of towards the maintenance ,of the generall carafe, upounthc paine and penalty nforefaid. ' - : ' ‘ . . and as for the rents and mean: profits. of the [aid lands, tenements,and hereditamcnts,a.ndallkindeofﬁentgﬁnd {the goods or chattels taken or ‘ detained if 0n? py' earhalilce; :35 aforefaid' ,2 due fattisﬁtﬁlimr is to; be made for thefamq £03139 partiesﬁbm whom the rents,;goods,.,or chattels were or (hell be detained, {'mce theft: troublesbegnn,“theprovin' eiallcounecll,or county c'ouncell {hall refpcﬁivcw arden, 13. irwin, it is further ordered and cﬂabliﬂrcrl for there- b moved"!