nants of this townc to rife in an inﬂantgfufﬁcient parties ‘ a : were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereb '7 i,- to have; letthc cavalliers in without oppolion; for that . “v "pu'rpol‘e there were'_in readineﬂé in the houl‘e of mallet *{ george butcher ofchriftrnaffe ﬁreet ,‘a new made captaine ‘ .i} for thrsdeligne,ab0m i 60 armed men , and in the houfeof i» ma {let rqéert team»: (who was one of the sheriffes of this ' .city the lalt yeere, fame and twenty men ready to at them‘felves tn armes whichthere they had; the one to gap- “'3; ’prifc the maine guard, the other, the guard at froome- , gate, and to let tn thcl‘e bioud {uelting chav’aliers; two l 'othc!’ bells were to toule‘at, the time time to give noriee to t. ‘ ifthe malignants to rife in all parts of the city.80th monday 3? ,, and tue fday, white peeces of lncle were given to divers, and ii. a; ‘to the better fort of people ribbins, who did weare them in 1:1 2 their bofoms and hats for diitinaionnnd all that had not the j: 2:, word fbarles,orthofe marks,’ were to be "put to‘the (word, l l 3 murtht red and deﬂroycd ,' beﬁdes d . ivers houfes in many placesofthe c rty were marked with white chalk, who were dcﬁgned to utter mine and de (truaion. the bulineﬂ‘e is not, ' ' as early elishbokoline, copyright to 20_19 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library as yet fully examined, butthis and much more is confcﬂ‘ed by the principle and marine plotters of this wickodfdelrgnc‘r lwanttime to give oua perfcé‘t relation,you_fhdl {preda- ly have aluller an better account, as ‘foone; as wehave a little recovered our {elves out oftltefe diltraétrons; {or-the prelim, here is-‘enongh to {titre-you bplto yoyn with as m' the admiration of ‘gods inﬁnite goodnell‘e‘a‘nd mercy to us, and to give god his glory: and prayfe- ‘forthts wounder. full - and gracious deliverance? i-that- hath vpreft-rved {0 many' thoufands of its tmttwere' innocent , and {old , and almoﬁ given up into the hands of thefe cruell and ethifﬂ men. - , v , ' b~b¥ge chegfea totals of this mifchievous deﬁgriayrere the a‘l‘oreﬁid robert “imam, andraurge butt/gen; mr. truly» taylor, mr. coleth andhis brother, mr. fxtzberéert, mo colfom', and two her arts, n. cale, e. armadle , mr. que, and captain call" 'of stuuguﬂmgwhdwuh at: leaf! one hundred more ‘aaors and amway-ate ; alreadyktakm andimptifoncd'inthe'caflle, and homely more are. drfco- tiered and fecured, many of them upon examination have confeifed the plat to be in manner as before ts ‘dcfcrtbed ; and that thteefeorefamilied of men, women, and children were to be put to the fwordmithout quarter, given in upon a note.twagaads-houfewas fearched and therein were found many papers thatdid clifcoverthe whole plot,and between three and four thoufar'xhpountls in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets,bc‘ﬁdes divers ‘mﬂru- ments to mnrthet‘and deﬂroy with cruelty , fuch as wee never law before. , ate/efrfrrt? ~ ‘ ‘ prince’ rupert and that army marched away as fooneas their plot “'“s‘it'fmlc‘g’ _ 1 a 3 * tl»: