( i 2 ) that this may give us a farther profpeéi; not only sugar, but ginger too being, as i have been informed, a very good com- modify as high as the levant. and if f0, or if there {hould be found any other motive to proceed {0 far, i cannot think it altogether impoﬂible but that fuitable means and proper re- gulatiods may be thought on. however, the advantages that may arife from any trade can never be fully known but by experience : and this in particular, as it will be among a rich people: plenteous in money, affords at prefent as fair a profpeét as any. 11:- then a licenfe for this spaniih trade lhould be deemed advifeable, as ihope it will, it may be no unproﬁtable part to conﬁder, upon what terms our merchants are like to fraud, with relation to thofe of france, who do carry on, and will ﬂill continue the trade againﬁ: them.- and herein particularly as- to duties. ‘ the author of the political state, 'in that for the month of april 1731, has this remark: “ even in exporting sugars “ (fays he) to our plantations on the continent, the french “ sugar colonies have a great advantage over ours. for as our planters pay four and a half per cent. upon exporting their sugars from their own plantations, and the french pay “ but one per cent. it’s evident that the french may fell their “ sugars in ‘our plantations upon the continent three and a half per cent. cheaper than our own colonies can do, grant- “ ing that the prime cof’t be equal in both colonies 5 which is “ a'n advantage fuﬁicient to ruin any trade in the world. *” but i muli take notice, that the enumerated duty, which is five shillings per hundred on white sugar, and eighteen pence per hundred upon brown sugar, is not there included or con- fidered at all, and which is neareli now ten per cent. more: so that the prefent difference between the french and us, in the duties of sugars upon this trade to n orth‘america, infiead of three and a half per cent. is neareli in reality thirteen and 4" page 352. a