the-state 0f the‘lﬂcnd- ‘of jamaiea;_’ 4.4.; eijful prince charles, king qf great‘bri, i {9'43 in order to the reﬂoring and regulating theime ”wﬁ‘r- tyre-,5 ta [endinto spain. his ema] extraordinqm .537. william .godolphijn; knight; an'thfgﬂ ﬂutlpmriy. and power to make ,ahﬂ'reaty convenient endpt-tpqrforthth ; and’elikewiﬂ? the mtg/2 ferem and rpmﬁgd charles, king of spain, (fit. and the queen 'rﬁeﬂﬁmaﬁﬁgaﬁqa, (922 .jbr the carrying an a mrja qfﬁp mac/afﬂict} mm da, counfeﬂor 9}“ state, and preﬁdeht pfrthe indies" t9; confer, treat, and cbmlude thereupm, with the [aid s1397 william godolphin : ﬂt length they thé’yrmﬂrlyﬂ; and agreed upon the article: of . the following titania, virtue of their fewer-at commiﬂiom. ; . a , ‘ ‘ , ; first; it is agreed be- tween the above m’en‘ti-- t59 tm”! 0f 1557- 50"- oned plehipotetitiaries ,sir ”51- ﬁ'““" liam godolphzja, and the earl of _, ' . ' ‘ r ._ penamnda, in the namesof the molt ferene ‘kitigs refpeaively, their make-rs, that the articles of peace and, alliance, made between we.ctog$(jo great britainaud spain, iandrid, 0.1l thg‘ﬁ " ma], 1667. or any claufe' the-reef; {hall in do manner be deemed, or undetﬁooglptovhe take-a a; way, or abrogated by this prefeptireaty 5 but?” the fame {hall remain perpetually in their ancxcnt ‘ force, stability, and vigour, fo far forth as they are not coﬁtfary,?or repugnant to this prefeut convention antlarticles, or to any thingeehetzeia contained. 3, ' tru 'i‘ there be an univer-s milww/‘ktp‘ft‘tﬂ fal peace, - tru‘n and ﬁnccre $65“ aw‘5’9jiﬁ-fh' amity in amelie/1., as m, the. n ., \y‘ > to . .. 4 ~at. ‘1 other