-. _____ ; * rms 0 ten keepin'fuch' a ill health, that‘no a ‘ 3’03? cahlgﬁhll _-w.hat they ,ail 5 (lime dteamipga 2". e9 be from . w0 r ms) till they ste. there - '. jworms to come ‘aavay alive, 1' _ ,mous' .ifurging sugar plums. . 2h . whichato‘ inn ocen'i’, and ,. ’_. safe, as alileicimannﬂﬁ orirhubarb. orn ‘ 3,953; lyéﬁ'l‘ieiifﬁthrunes. with bena. guys-n; {$3313 {gm-no; woi'ms'at a'll.,‘tthc .19.. "am; lacy §uqﬂ a- thing thié day in the ;. \le-ltl ggétin, for" a 'moﬂ" delicaté‘ einql’prgc; .lvhe re 3%. ﬁne-safe-puusgq may be want'edi-é-to fre‘e the‘ body- 's-‘s fouliriitnﬁbm‘ssx and thcrrbx cytﬁts diﬁe‘mpm. . as "is daily exigquénbcd iﬁ’ffamﬂlnsm-jqso‘thit, a; __, .' few perstyijor-ths. only‘of. thefeplums- .5 .will fwe‘i-wdeai of charges in ‘phyﬁck and; _-. _. _..___.....t— -fsm .‘5‘ r. : tow-$53413 ecovcr. [5. ‘ c0 m mzhqn, sﬂggarﬁl’lumg at the confeétlon'ers; i ‘r‘h . .arc indeed biggersthanxhefc bucfm- colour, 1 'tjste atcgithefe may the eagerly children, 3:: ,like' a. common sugxr plum. or" 1415;: an 'sweet meat ”is-”:4you 'cm iv: the child ,to pleafeuits» _ r,'you ma ‘bruil'c .an . 1) 123391,”; ghem.’ like: bl: of éo/if 3;.) 30611:; .in alittle 7%., mar. beer; gruquscc. wa“ 50 take them," whighiis {yew good “:an kip- s gustaf worms, are~~a big belly.'_vyhich. ' .; . 'z-l'hel'e rare little 5116-53 .plllms; 3‘3“?“th l5,; "take "down; and the.chlldxeo.ar_e soon the well 3‘3. pale l031“. hollow eyes, stmlung breath, itchln “inf thenofe; which makes phlldren often rubbing .335“ .u‘ue'ml sleep, with srartmgs, gngl crying out. 3n i'mfcng's, (laughing, gxipeg ki’uung, away. pam i and sicknefsatstomach} lnclmin -t0 vonlt. agrgat ' '-appezite,s‘and'craveing .orylﬂua '5 fre‘quently nymg ;; .réllleli :ﬁhd‘lineafy, 21: no body "can tell wiii} or eywm merit“. qc'weeléhﬂea qt: eeqe £2 8'15 ; monarch . a. _, .. l ec c‘t io n .5' fat the s ’u‘lé in the, clofc stool, by the fan - q bean-‘ityggj'".$lﬂlib‘elf§sand raina: stomach!) ' ‘ erese i}: “more lives, then half thé l’hyl'lck in l .‘v‘w r. (*%a"~ﬂ".‘"”"'~ f‘wm-m-‘v'. a r~ 4n). ;‘—.‘"hr"'"-1l'-".-e, mu- ;5h¢.‘-fv-g““ £312.51. . r h‘ j. a ' c? _ “- .‘ . v v . .3 -_ ' . '. {i . ,c . l- ‘ l i henevcr . than a child is out of order, letit- immediately, and outof hand, eat one; '_0nly of thefe plums. and if butcﬁ'atcn 3.timéy s-willsavc a deal of charges ‘inté’lpyﬁcléiﬁiﬁecowr more children from 111ml”: thin a-loiﬁé- of oxkez' ‘- comm 5h0? keeprs. throagh‘ out the' whole 7 kingdom "[9.“ adcal of glide gumopenning réingdles an _".pl_,u_m"s which proves to yew 'qﬁick a ﬁctfpm‘1'that» they. stillfend "to templebar fol: . my“; .5; morefof menu" "ﬁnduhat is 110: sold, aycq r'etth‘lcd atanjr time; .« - ' ‘ 3 ‘ a ,7 “' d oilyordser ﬂlallj‘bo immediately dblchfca§‘=-”’ j ’ w v ’.to.'any.caririer,i'stjge coach, watexman, 0r come! adents.:you ﬂan-lll’leafe to order, to [my pizﬁao _the.,lﬁingdom tllél'e sugar g-plums prcl'cncly ‘ cure: an .agues 5cm. cﬂquiéng-grﬁne; rhumatiﬁn. thickncfs of ropfy'greco " 'slckiléisj-fw'éiiﬁ'inf;pppeﬂf. '.' coughs; ‘a'w‘short'3‘?‘;: 5 breath”, inlngiﬁgmftélimgfafc and £135, bf'ea'thgi" s . . on}: on!)r of? iliéferuﬂé plums (of a penny) is .. . .enou‘gh' 2'3: bring zh‘efqurms \m'ith'foul 3; croft ' humours‘ jawafly' ﬁ'qm :1 chlld of": or 3 year's old ..- alla halfsaﬁlpm for younger glnldren; ' : ‘ t wpi'i’lumsgiven toil! chilcl of 4.. 5. 01:6. fears 61a; to bring wonnsj‘awayé thu: plums, {0 one ’7" i ' . 0e3; 9, of lo. years oldﬁ-for a m: fafe purge. and manor woman r-may aka. 5. 0:6.of ghc‘m- when thex wan; to be ﬁnely t'urge'd 23nd to have foul .humours out 9 ”that .gfculy. "and a ‘e‘r ovary workingg'by which you‘ 'tee a' d off-70531. rumours; ﬂs'grecn as ggaferrink’a deal of;warm broth,.water gruel, a le or ‘l'ca', ill": more .you-drlokxhc better they will work lf-not givm‘i stools enough add a plum max: time 8 itheonlyjharm. ofa‘ plum merciful: a. dofe would ogly; be a stool ot'two the more. . ‘ . . m 1875 i n g a day or two rbetween each, the-{c plums shouldbe taken 5 tlmes‘ becaufe once only . take-mg gloss not: i sl’ur'go qut'rof the body all the ' worm s, and foul 'huulougggjﬁn§.maz be taken willem; 315.619: 229:1». " _. “"d-v-im‘mi‘ﬁi‘g ev-‘s'veri-tlie,.hean s; -. -. ...,.._.-_