e the ant of resting sugar. text-'re, a ﬂair. igri rfnowr whiteeefsga nfd otranl‘parent that common print may .; lad hrougha t..e ti. 'cl: el't p:.rto or": ale rge loaf. . this fort u {age r to"; be centedv .ith diliere. ‘ ﬂowers, by lirewing the ﬂowers on the 2:121:91“ cot‘ns, and renewing them as often as the cloths are changed. 11' tisice a tie}; helide: t. w ater, ﬁlterin ng through the cloth carries 1 - he t the: {p titles . the £0 1". ers in which their fragrance rehd:s, and i-. hundred and ioriy-l moi; .2. ar toyed. the french prep .tre, in imitation of the royal, a fort of tugar which the}: ='...i liters teppe. this is no other than the common claycu d.ugar rafped ‘55:} ﬁne before driing, and rammedinto {mall moulds which has: been pre- eiomly moittene dwith water. this fort of fugar looks verv beau iiul: but as irspa rticies have no natural union, the) feparate upon the lealt moillsure, and run: nto melaﬁ'es, 3. 0f sugar-cairzﬁ'. sugar-candy is made‘ item the mufcavado or clayed fugars, by diﬂ'olving them in steel: lime water, and after due clariﬁcation fetting them to er}-r {ghee or {hoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnilhed with a number of {small {ticks laid acrol's for the fugzr to {hoot upon: their lower aperture is almoﬂ: clol'ed, fo as to [offer the part which remains liquid to ﬁlter through very (lowly. “then the {tiger is fuﬁciently boiled, it is carried with all poﬂible expedition into an hot ﬂove, immediatelv poured into the moulds, and the ﬁove kept {trongly heated. the fugar concretes upon the {ticks into crvlialine mafi‘es, ofa white or brown colour. according as the fugar was pure or impure. 4‘ appendix the art of fermenting and .difiilling melaﬂ'es, ea” . for rum, or inﬂammable spirit. i. 01" the 'frrmentetirn eff/:11: con: 3515:: in general. all kinds 0 ‘fweet vegetablejuices are capable of being converted, by means of {‘1 co;- rerrnenteti on, into sinous liquors, 11 inch ma}r either be preferved m that farm, or made to 3ield b} diﬁiiiation an inﬂammable {pirit , bv a hafiv fermen- tatioe, or a 1101" one loner contmued the l are changed into vinegars. the native iuice of thei fugar cane, as it is eminentlv {wee et,is lilt ewife 1n a particular manner dztpoteti to ferment; but without a great deal of addrefs runs, beyond the procefs ot' tin-0115‘ actmehizzan- into an acetone ﬁate. after it has undergone a degree of ﬁre, it becomesﬂ leis .ei'cepti'ole of thefe changes, and does not ferment readily without the 2.11:. france or 'fuch matters as promote this operation: inch 15 the ﬂower griz-cad with 11‘ “ upon liouors during fermentation, {5'}. - - - . here