.1 ' '. 1 1. 9““ wwi? who-{1166’ ﬁnder agave-1111mm, 13 ' - ' ‘ " ‘, nitionalij ﬁhéeked and ebﬂtfouled, that téfer proviﬁde 13' made agaihﬁ its bemg‘ 0‘- wifé ex‘ercil'etl. the late eat is founded oh the deltruéiion of this conﬁit‘utional fecurity. if: the parliament have a right ‘to lay a duty ' . bf four {killings and eight pence an a hun~ ' ﬁred weight of glafs, or a ream of paper, my have a right to lay a duty of any other ﬁlm on either. they may mile" the duty ' as the author bcfore qoted {3513,1135 been dune 111 forne countries, till it ‘9 exceeds fen.- “ venteen or eighteen times the value of the ‘ “ commodity. -" in ihort, if they have ‘a right to levy a tax of one penny upon us, they have a right to levy a million upon us. for where does their right {top f at any gi- ven number of pence, (billings, or pounds? '1’!) attempt to limit their right, after grant. ing 11: to exiii at all, is as contrary to reafon, as granting it to exilt at all is contrary to uﬂzie'e; if they have any right to tax us, then, whether our own money {hall continue in our own pockets, or not, depends no long- in: on 11:, b111}, on them. 9* there' 18 nothing v‘ which we can call our own” , or to me the words. of m1.locke, “ what property ‘.‘ have" we ‘1 in that, which another may, “- by right, take, when he pleafes, to hirnq. 0‘ {elf "' ' ‘ " -the{’e duties, which will inevitably be 1e;- vied nptm us, and whieh are now levying-up. 011‘ 113, are exprcfsly laid for the folc put-pf;- ﬂaking money, this is theme defmiti- a.