i v : uestllc e rl english books online, copyrighl: ©|12€§lb9r:rr;q "glazes reproduced by courtesy of brltls but rim (his-hasbeensfo ﬁn: many years pnfi‘ can never he nneltioneg or denied. forth: beopl'c ofle-errgland, and ulher palaeoﬂ the continent, have fupplicd rhe-fymh-hhgmceienies with proviﬁons, end necellhzlu ni’ni! kinds fur rhein hinnrnriensn and have inken from them sngnrs, end great qzantitics ofrum,, which-mermw never nrsiie heihre (es interfering with franz!) brandy) (ill rhey round a venr for n by rhis irene am rjiey takc ear ilkcwil‘e great @ant‘ities of [he ﬁre-eh mainline, whieh was ureiers m then! hernre, for she reme rcafon, she: the diﬂilling is would hin» dcr rhe cnnhirnprien (film/1d}. a nd reeh framb rum and mnieires is erren bought hy {hem wir'n mnney received in our sugar-colonies, from iheir cargues {old lliel'e. ' tie: mirehiers rrern lhis cnrnrneree are very rneny and eyidene, anil’ \vlll encrciil: more and more every year, if lbmc cﬂeﬂual srop he not pin to ill by rhismmnsthefthl} have enereared rheir plantations, and made new seulsments, and chieﬂy nippiy humbprgb, helium], spain, tlieleviw,and rhe il/irdz‘ztrmkmn, wrihsiignrs, wniehwere formerly {6m rhiiher by us. tar briliﬂ sugarecolonk-s can’t ﬁnd rhe markst for iheir sugars shroud, which lllcy did formerly, but chieﬂy depend upon our own confumption. many ofzhc inhabitants and mews arere redeeeri, that th— nrere. moving to the northern colonies which, in cafe of :1 war with . rams, in all probability, will occaﬁon the nure lul‘s of the sanr mandi; thcrc bring in martixiw ninne upwards of nine theernnei well-(iilciplm’d men. tn). may; essences- --e «mamas, 4mm; «r risen ewes“ memes by the traders from xhc orrhem colonies, who carry it away to purchu'c sugar, rum, and malcltes, ‘fmm the frsmb plantations. that by this intercourfe, they have an opportunity of taklng 03‘ gm“ anniiries of foreign empm mnnufnanres, and india goods, in n cinn. delline manner, from the fyewzi and dumb. a en what is wenhy of greei conﬁdcmu'un, is, that zho’tlic northern co. innies mey he gainers upon :hewheie hy rnis trade; yet the tram]; sagan colonies receive much moi: advantage ehereby riun rhe nerrhern colonim do, rum and meieiies being eienr proﬁt to [he framb; and rhe came and linnher lhey receive, abfolurcly neeeirery for [hi-sin, and whieh ihey enniei not have from any eiher place. nor do the nnrihern cnionies lake {rein hence more nfthe emlyn mennrnétnres rhnn ihey formerly did; nor hring s proﬁt in gm! bram/m we ten/ye, sny ways in pmporzlon ro munierhehnee ihe ineredihie dnmege gm; br: .m mnri inirer from lhe mifchier" rhe sugerecu— inniesreeeiveh it; thernin of which innit innnedinreiy sires: g 11137224117; in rh‘e higheii egree. brsrnes rhe gtsa: beneﬁt the freud! ceienies rcctivc from rhis dec. which ofitl'clf alum: muﬂ fuon dcﬂroy the biili/n sugar-colonies. [hue arc other caufes which will contribute to nuke our sugarecolonﬁ decline, and enshie the frmrb to ﬁlpply foreign maikcis wirh sugar. tne mm sugar-colonic: xctcive [he grrnrert eneonrngerneni from rheir morhu-cuumry, and their duties arc pull than ours, ‘v\‘ y e [3] r is [he grin/b sugar-coloniespay in rhe pienmriensagfery’oﬂffznr “ "”{erycsm for rheir sugars hernre rhey canﬂnp ehern 15:0 'r ,[m rum, ml? hrhrjvir rimyn hnek on iixpemrilenk nn_ inoxc [gird (1|): [hfifll esncm m; w m i ‘ n: a . ' .' i lvin [rum win _ _ wh‘§hddtl£a§l:5§hcizliefr:rgolgg nley muﬂ pay (lac lgantgilgﬁilggiisrgfrfggfn}; eerrie a we | . [l eir me maize sugnrs, an riflﬁcwzlfilecgﬁgafugve; and abov: the four and a half }m' cm. duty. ' colonic: be not s if rhis dee m the farsign sheer _ ‘ . uiip'i0n :lhiﬁgléj‘ieulaelly prevenred, rhe erin/12 $ugar-colomgs‘lw‘illvﬁﬁ 1:12;; {peso‘l’ybfinng ruined the conrequenee of which“; greerownﬂcn 0e 6y the gar “l ' r (n11 the brim manu ares n ' ‘ glazi‘golgteehcangpfl; (:vholc beneai ariﬁng from rheirnperenien of nine produé‘tr i 4 ‘ ouk navigadon and senrnen mun neeeireriiy fall on and dnnrnrih. the llﬁ‘imn trade, as chieﬂy depending on’ihe sugar-colonies, inure decay. wu m ‘ lils will be ann 9 s gn ks, a other lemnﬂn stacks and uten , ‘ of no 111’: rand :hércb r{o much wealth will be aﬁuall funk and loft no this x y y nation.