~92, the voyage ofﬁc‘mingo goofales , lars; as that in“: thool‘atud years there is found neither thief nor whore-monger, for fm": then: is no want of: any thing necelfary for the tale of mm, food growmg every where without labourmf all forts that can he dcﬁrcd. as for cloths, houfes pr'whatever elfe : met: truly be fuppos’d to want: it tsprowded by their super-lots, though not with- : 3 out fome labour, but ﬁrst fo eafy as if they dicl it for pleafurc; again their females are all abram 33 beauties, and by a fecret clifpotition ofziature, a 1‘3 mmjhcre having once known a woman never de- 33 ﬁres any other 5_ murther was never heard of , amongﬂ them, outlier is it hardly po’lii-lc to be 3,3 committed? for there can be no wou..rf umdc out .‘ 3 what is coreahle; yea they alfared me, and for my 3 part [believe it, that though a mans head be cut 3 off, yctif witlliotllrce moons it be joined to the 33 carcgfs again, ar15_the juice of a certain herb time 3'3 grouogapplyed,~it will heft) eonfolidated as the 3 wounded party {hall be perfeﬂly cur-ed. but the chiefcauf'e of their good government is an excel- lent difpoﬁtion in the " nature of the people, 12) thatall both old and young hate all manner of vice and livein fuel: love, peace, and amity as it feems to be another paradifc ; though it is true likewife that fome are of a better difpofitioo than others, winch they. difcern immediately- at their birth 5 - and becaufe it is an invioloble law amongﬂ them that none [hall be put to death,therefore perceiving '3‘- by their stature or fome other ﬁgns who are like to be of a wicked and debauched humor,they,fend ‘. ' them, [know not by what means, into alie‘liarth, anti-change them for. other children, before they have either opportunity or ability to 'do ‘amifs 3 among, them; but ﬁrlt, they 2y, they are fain to : keep;them there for fom‘e time till the air of the earth alters-2 their colour like ours. their. ordinary jcnt {anthem is a certain high hill in the north of . ﬂagrrabyyhof; people, lam apt to helium; are .31” . g l l 3 m' : ;l. l images reproduced by courtesy of british library ‘3; europe, aﬁa, or africa. 3 .3 ﬁnce i read certain ﬁorres teodmg to conﬁrm cription of nova gramzm. 64mm in his hillary of mexm 1f m3 memory fail ‘ 9-? wholly f3" early english book’sﬁoinline, cdeyrigiht © 2019 proquest llc ’ ”to the world in the mom; 53 i ._ :‘ wholly defcended from them, both in regard of h i their colour, and their continual of: of tobacco, ' ' which the lunar: or moan men ﬂnoak exceedingly, the place abounding much with moilture, together with the pleafure they taketherein,and t‘ome other refpcéts too long to rchearfe : sometimes, though but feldom, they miﬁake their aim and fall upon i remember fome years “that is related by thele lunars, and efpecially one chapter of neubr'igenﬂr. inigo mamiejtu' in his def- alfo fall-pl; deﬁa do no:" recount what will make my report mare cre- dible ; but! value not teﬁimonies. i f you inquire how juﬂicc is cxeeoted,alas what need is there of exemplary punifhmeot where no offences are committeds neither need they any law ers,‘or there is no contention, the feeds where- of when they btgin to fprout are by the wifdom of thcnext superior pluckt up by the roots. and as little want is there of ‘phyﬁrlrms, they never forfeit theml‘elves; the air is alwms pure and tem- ' perate, neither is. there any caul‘e of liclml-l's, l 3“ could never hear of any that $1ch diﬂfml’ctcd' but the tim: amgn’d them by nature being fpent, they dye without the leafi pain, or rather ceafe to :13; live, as a candle does to give light when what uou» times it as conformed. l was once at the departure of one of them, and “as much furpriz-id that not- 'yzi v-xithﬁanding the happy life he lit-"d, and the mul- titude of friends and children he mould forl'ake, yet as loan as he underlieod his end to approach, he prepar’dagrcat feal’t, and inviting all whom "' he eﬁecm’ci, cxhorts them, to be merry ahd're- 33 “ loyce with him, ﬁnce the time was come" he 3. r; “ thould now leave the counterfeit plcafures ofthat ' ‘z “ world, and he made partaker of ail true joy god “ perfeél happinefs; i did not to much admire f 15 d