# anonymous - 1675 - every woman her own midwife, or, a compleat cabinet opened for child-bearing women furnished with di .l’ _ 26 @r’eﬁr‘vetives ﬁagainﬂ the" {hague} . .. weﬁrhhtives hgainﬂ the plague. 27 mm 3‘ i- maﬁick,§aﬁron,ana,ha1fadrachm. boiarmoniack etﬁciaii patts , and there to apply the rump; of chickens, ' nd fo appiy to the place fome {trong repated as beforefatd, 3 ii. a11 thefe mutt he made in ﬁne poudet,and ('0 mixt together; as before is tau htyou , va niatutative,an atttaétive piaiﬁcreot cataplafme, ashereaftet _ {hall be (heated you. if the greif be in the head orthrote, 9011 may glyetwo fcruples,ot one drachm thereof with any of then apply v’entofes to the neck: if it he in the emunétuaties the aforefatd waters. of the heart, then apply’ them to the mouldets: if in the e- _ munétuaries of the liver, then apply them to the'buttocks or - _ agood opt“: to ”pf/1 oencme, med prﬁwkf [man thighs, now when thisis done, either by phlebotomypt ven- tofes, then within an hour or two at the moft after it,you mnft conferve of the ﬂoures of burrage, buglofs, v’ioiets, bit- ive the tick fome good cordiallmedicine,which hath power tame, am, 3. ii. rim“ triade g ii. red term ﬁgiilam, to comfort the heart, reﬁﬁc the venomous matter, and aifo term lemnia, mithridate, mm 23', '1. shaving of ehonie, and a tocure (went, whereof out of the foilowingyo’u may make hfa‘tftfi—horn, orient pearls, roms of tormentili, mm 3 i. ' shavmg 0f unicorns horn, 11001: of angelica, mm half a drachm. sirrup of the juice of {mail sorreil and bugiofs, til the plague, which 41ft: pro— “ma i0 much as {hall ﬁttﬁce. .mix all thefe together in the form of an opint, then take otthe fame opiat, one drachm and haif. scabies water, balm water, am: g ii. choice as you it“. ' _‘an excellent good powder to ex}: evalgtbfwmt. . roots ochnrian, binnie, pemﬁtzit, am, 3.i- roots of . _ . _ anmentﬂl’pittandcr) and, 3 m, red sanqﬂs 3_ [5‘ finepearle diffoive the ()piat 1n the waters, and dunk it warm, then ofboeh forts, and, 3. '1: fine belgrmoninrkprepared;ﬁne term “an" a little upon it, and then goe to bed and fweaz. ﬁgillam, am, 3. vi. rindes of citrons, ted corral}, roots a onedainr, {having ofeéanj, bone of a stags heart, and, ﬁx- ”ﬁferrexceﬂmt good man: to expel! the “www and procure hi- . s of the ﬁve ptetious (tones, mm, 3 teen gtaines : fragment _ shaving ofa unicorns horn, succim, mm, 3. ﬁ. leaves of _ . _ goid and silver, am, one andhaif in number, - 3 take {:1 great white onyon,nnd ptck out the coat or mid~ make a“ theft: in ﬁne powder, every qnefeverailbyhi‘mfelf, die ““1”“, the? ﬁll the hole with good venm triacle, or t“ ' '- andromaebm trmcle, and aqua twine, then {top or cover the ref: him in the hot afhes un- nd give't‘h'eneof 331. of 3; nu. . more orieﬁ'e as occaﬁon requiteth, eithetinsotteii, scufiiux, hf)“: 0f the 0113'0“ agatnﬁnd or cardﬂm benediﬁm water mo ot'three'ounces , whereunto 911 he be foft, then ‘ftrein it ﬁrongly through a dormant}. p of lemons, or four citto he, and 1ve1t the ﬁck to cit-mite, and the reﬁ that remains, pound it - mail, and apply itto the fore,and fweat upon it. _ g 1 - and then mix them all together} on muftadde a little sittu giveit warm ., ’the bularmoniackmuﬁ be pounded {mail , then n _ . . waihed in scam“ water, and 1-0 drycd. , - ow when he both taken any of the aforefaid cordials, if . he chance to vomit it up again, then waih his mouth with anothergoed powder. ' rofewatet and vinegar, and then give him more of the - , fame again, which mutt he proportioned according to the . 1 be. leaves of dittdnder, called diétmi cret’ici, roots of quaﬂtltlfﬁ "0111it8d,f0rifailwere vomited, than givefo much i i tormenn'l, bittanie, pimpermll, gentian, 294054? , 4m. 3- i- tnore : (ifieffe)then according to the quanta. vomltedﬁntl ‘i if he vomit that alfo,then give hsm more,a-n fo contmuext t0 term irwin/1 [foes chewing,-ﬁnemﬁrthjiindeof-four citrons, . wk? 1 . ‘ ‘ _. and: _- _h h 11 early] english booité ' i i '- i onlme co ' ima e , pyrtght © 2019 g s reproduced by courtesy of library of (2:233:23 llc