e i 8 ] complaint, no pall/'51: rig/2t their claim, or good their demand 5 in all which, the leai’t breach oi‘p ' 'l ' ulually branded with sam/ego: and though tlterifglzyeegseii; (pr/ml to the di/izerfcol bod] of thel’eople, (a dew/l0)! ma; i'll c l’tly impracticable in government, and ﬁtterindced for rat/me; to move, than natiom to admit) yet (elettiorzs hemg ii) popular, and conventions freq/rent) the ﬁzme em! 18 attained with much more [afar] and oooverzieme. as to the ﬂaccorim part of the prince’s power , .he'exercifos it by aﬂzxiﬂm and when, not only [from , but féverely accomptaéle. : and though both he: and the lord: have their ail-game: in paiﬁng of bills, and it be the king oral] that: by his royal hat, makes our law: 5 yet no 7213: bein’gtim.’ polable but by the con/eat of the commons, nor any law (without it) of fuch voila/7], that the mioiﬂers offoﬂioe ’ will enforce it,there is a mi eandﬁvect mom forthe king and liltewile for the lamb, to pals all {itch bills as are con3 ventent for the people,and not greatly lmrtful to the prime. and thofe that duly weigh the reaﬁm oﬁtbiogs, do ﬁnda mgatiw m the king to be a molt {ale preférezatz‘rue of peace to the people, who have as much comfort under the pro-i tection of his prerogative, as they have beneﬁt by their own privileges ,- for in truth, this burg-bear negative (as our rtjlltbllﬁrmi labourto reprefent itiisan im ’netrable target, to lheltcr and fecure the government rom being alter’d at the lvi/l of the commom, if at any time they. ' ould again prove faﬁious. this ( being in rea/on mani- iefl) has alfo been confirm’d by great experience' our 4’1qu having rarely obllruéled any bill which they might lafely grant; but on the other fide, pals’d many {jig/j ﬂit: oi: mirer ‘grace 5 citatiitiicribiitg their prerogative , and clipping its wings, may better had it been for us, if they had not picrc’d \its very borne/r. ‘ i this is that trip/6com! tllalqollld never yet be broke» though it has been 6’”! aﬁmdcr; tliisis our gala/gm time; rrﬁu’d 5 for every .137”, being thrice read, chated, and agreed early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the john rylands library, university of manchester agreed in either hoif/e, is at lafl brought to the king for his royal/[feat ; (which is the mat of our lam: .- j a trjal fo exact, that furely no droji can el'cape it ; time all interefl: mull thereto concur ; as truly it is but ﬁt they lhould, in the eltablilhment of 27m which mutt brod all. this is that ﬁmperammt, which purges our honors, and (at once) endues us with health, vigour, and beauty: no vote is here precipitated; _no all huddled up ;. as by fad everett, you law they formerly us‘d to be, when the power was engroffed .by a pretended houfe of commom, purg’d and moulded to the [mere/l: of a eamon ; a conféquerzce butnatural to fuch premifeﬂnothing was (there) weigh’d, but as in a ballance conﬁfling of one scale ; our laws were mandrake: of a alto/m growth; and ourﬁme: as fickle as the [feather of the mtltitude. thekirxg has the power ofmakiog mr, but then he cannot well be laid to have the meow; fo that it does not amount to extraordinary much more, than aliéerr] to fly if he can get wings. he has a sword alfo; but himﬁlf‘ alone. very rarely draws it: and though he has the felt: right in the mlit/‘a, yet is he plealéd to wearit only as a decent weapon, vouchiaﬁn to the nation, in a large degree, the uﬁ and bentﬁt of it. he chufes his moi/[err ; » r as who doth not his servants?) but then they pafstlii'ough liich a teﬂﬁs none but the foundei’t integrity can abide. he can hinder the ﬂroke offa/tioe with his pardoo,( tho‘ l‘till, thefaw: not being muzzled, it will bite terribly) but then (on the other ﬁde) the means of relieving his lvaats refls in the commons, to ballance his [vii], and induce him to a corrq/pondence with parliamentr. that his per/on l‘nould he sacred, is molt .vecdful, to avoid circulation of actor/rm; reaﬁmablr, lincc it carries with it the coo/mt of nations, jfllﬂ, that he become not the meer butt of falliorz, and ala/toe. and be in a worle condition than the baﬂff of vajfalsg [domino/e, that the alail'edrreft of goa/cmmmt be not daily zlotover’d -, [vi/e, ‘ ' c 2 in l l 1 i l l