0:. § ‘6 .g5! .,~i the unhappy i - - va i333» number on board being 21o, out of which there were only three faved‘3 golf”), and f. bower laurence, a boy. r. a, , one gentleman was drove on shore, bout whom thiy found ,a thoufand pound, whore namejs uppofed-gto be craﬁer, by;writiugs influx ‘ ?ockets found: l'llﬁqwﬂé they fay thelmd belbiwen, ham on: diamond ring, .. his sllm't m’u’lﬁd brfhe ﬂoariug‘ocean, , o “i l the fad and difmal story; -. 'ﬁrought from de the lizzart' the royal arms in all her glory, there receiv’d a fatal shock -. ‘ , - the winds and waves did both confpite} ' for to ruin all therein: . - -' v ' oh bellmmn ! brave 3915412115. ‘ . molt unhappy halt thou been. . didi-'0 shore his'body bring. governor unto barbarian, oh! the grief and fad diﬂraﬁion, he was failing hold‘and brave: lwhich this accident hath. brought, ' little dreaming it was his fortune; - 0n the ww“ and neat relilioﬁé, f01: to have a warty grave; eof'the perfons tlldt are loﬂ ; ' - with many more brave noble perfons; ‘ 'some for husbands, other fathers, which were_put in place of trull,_ _ brothers, kinfmen, d0 lament, but ohi their sands were jult expiring, lvith aking hearts, and weeping eyes, . , their time was come and die they mulls, ' - to think how from them they are tent. above two hundred souls’wete periﬂi’d, but now obferve the diﬁnal. stow: , in an [pliant all were loft. . given by theft three that’s {el/ad, by furious winds and waves were driven, (twigb h45", “ktwife ”7715”” gay”), ; on the stag‘ rocks they were call: 5 and thomas laurence, a boy ‘tis laid, y 911! the ditmal cries and scriekings, as to barbados: we were failing, twould have pierc’d a heart of stone, lord .belbaven, he. did fay, w hen the galley _fplii: to pieces, came noble anr midjaviul sailors, for to hear their pitious moan. halal} may 03" voyage 5‘9 0 of all that were on board the veﬂ'el, but drawing near unto the lizzarl, l oly three could rcae‘n the shore, _ there the storm began to rife, 1mic) ’on a w reck by the ._winds were carried, nothing theilbut defolzltion, tlhm the waves and billows; roar: did appear before our eyes; . “ yien praife the lord for his great mercy, such a dreadful scene of sorrow, ‘ , iii“ that thus have been preferv’d, sure before was never feen, were and inagniﬁe his gooduefs, oh bellmvcu! brave bellmrmi .' llllnaly your maker ferve. ‘ moll unhappy hall: thou been. qapmm ”rim, was commander, captain il’illz's cry’d brave sailors, {it this moﬁ unhappy, time, do your belt, or die we mull, /"t sailings to be attorney general, \i} irh many more jufl in their prime, where going over for to fettle, at bar/miner we do hear. 1 . but by the ocean they were follow‘d, .3535" as they did their courfcs (leer. what a scene of difmal horror, there was [ten when this was o’re, ; bodies ﬂoating on the ocean, l‘ by the waves were drove on shore, {indthe country people running, striving who fhoiild get the moli, §ropping all without diftinétion, tis the cultom of the coal}. rocks: v. lord have mercy, now relieve ii 3-- in thy providence we tmﬁ'. '_ . save us in the time of danger, - for death before our eyes appea , ,, and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell dowri to prayer. then againll the ﬁnal rocks, the royal galley fplit in twain, two hundred souls aloud were crying, lord fave us from the warry main, to fee each for his life a ﬁiifting, as the waves tol't mountains high, the galley in the deep a ﬁnking, while dying greens did pierce the sky. giving an account of thqﬂoyal ___amzc galley, captain willi, .' which was fplit to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizzard the ioth of november i 2 lord beware”, who was gomg as governor to barbra/oer, with feveral other perfoiis z31}. ~'to the tune of, women: work is net/er dame, sec, . in her bed with cords ﬁle’s bound, ' crying night and day my jewel, “or.“ commander, pill”? on board the i in ion, the h i whofe names are george hair, w213: lfeethe noble ord belblwen; climbing to‘ the t p—maﬁ high , . , with many more f birth and breeding, ‘ who ,likcwii‘e, in t e waves did die, at length the gal] 1' lit in pieces, death put an end to . their “toe, we three poor-souls upon a wreck, with waves rims toﬂ'ed too and ﬁre. at length unto the shore was driven; 3‘ here the people took us in ; ,. we prais’d the lord for his great mercy, since we thus preferv’d have been, and fav’d us in the fatal hour, when the waves did us furround, and a many souls did perilh, and before our eyes were drown’d.‘ oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, wives a weeping for their husbands, the children-for their _father dear, . let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrow they are in. _ , and think upon the lord belbrwcn, how unhappy he has been. _ ‘ ~ a noble lady in the city; ‘ , hearing of her husband’s death, ‘ .. ’tw‘ould have mov’d a heart of pity, to hear the words [he did ‘exprefs, crying, o my tender jewel, ls a watty wave thy tomb, l’llfearch the deep to_ ﬁnd my dear, o cruel death come feize me footi- thus ﬂie raves in fad diﬂraétion, ‘he is in the ocean drown’_ _: , thus many a mouthful widow, " and babies fatherlefs are made, conﬁder then the many dangers, which poor sailors thro’ do wade. . many more that night did penﬂi, in the storm as we do hear, _ _ as in the downs the fleet was riding, some lord belbaveu’s fate did (hare, lord keep us from all fuch difaller, deliver us from fudden death, ‘ and give us grace that we may ferve, . theimighry god while we have breath. early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library