”:31 a .m. i i c 4 ) _ that the india trade was encreafed, before the war. to avery great height and their manufaétures in {0 great rcquell, that they (from being ascan'dal to beworn a few years before) lbon after became thcgenerat wear of almolt all forts and degrees of perfons ; by wl‘llch means our own ‘ manufaaures were negleacdand our manufaéturers thereby under great d“: t, bein not able to catr on their trades, manywere forced ﬁniaﬁemi' whcgby the poor mined employment, the price at wool re uced very low, and great quantitiesof wool could not bemanufraured ; whereupon the parliament thought it necel'fary to make a law for surﬁng in wooden, thereby to confume fame of the wool that lay heavy upon the d. v grg‘hstrstgarlndiam have provifrons and materials very cheap, and wages at three half-pence or two pence a day; which dlﬁlblcs us, and the tell of the european traders, to contend with them ; and for this reafon, their trade did encreale apace, until this war; and unlefs reﬂrarned, wlil mall: certainly encreal‘c, to the ruining of our belt fabricksn and the vail num— ber of people that have their livelihood anchpcndancc thereupon. that ﬁnce this war, the india company have laboured under fame dil'couragements, and but fmall quantities of their manufaaured goods, in proportion to'what they formerly brought to, ’have been imported; by reafon thereof, great encouragement hath been given to the manufactures of silk, half silk, and worﬁed. which have been very much improved in a great variety of figured, strip’d, and other fort of. stuffs, which have been made not only in undo», norwich and conrerhnq. 3“ much greater quantities than ever; but this manufaaure has now fpreadeit felf to err/io], molar}, and divers other parts of the kingdom ; and will yet encreale, if due encouragement be given thereto. . _, . . ‘ . that time our trade hath cncrealed, greater numbers of poor have been employed. and greater quantltles of englilh wool confirmed,- to that r e price of the wool is advanced, and the labour and wages of the poor encreafcd ; which enables them to live comfortably, and coni'nme the produét of the land, to lirpport’themliﬂves and families; which is of great advantageto the landlords and tenants, and the beneﬁt of the whole nation. v , v that in call: the eoﬂ-india’stock fhould be enlarged, and that trade ﬁntled by an of parliament, it will be in the power of that company to mine out woollen and silk manufaftures, and bring down the price of wool, and work-wens labour and wages, as low', ifrnot. lower, than ever, unleﬁ the wearing of the an manufaétured goods be prohibitedin england, and the plantations. » ; ,tbat fuch prohibition would not only encourage our own manufactures, upon which the value of lands, and the employment of our poor depends, but prevents the exportation of much of our coin. which at this time can be very ill {pared ; and allb prevent many of the lnco'nvenienccs feared from the search eoﬁ-lndia company. 7 , ' that ﬁnce there is a trade found out to the indies, no objection can wellibe, made againlt their trade, in spices, drugs, salt-petre, 55:. nor lgaintt the manufaaured goods that are brought in,- and again exported to foreign markets, becaufe it will becarry’d on by others, ifwe ihould neg- leétit: but certainly it mutt be accounted very ill husbandry, ’and will be 0? fatal and ruinous coniéquence, to del'piﬁ: our own manufactures, and fend‘out gold and silver to the indies, from whence it" will never return, to fairlyﬂenglish books online, copyright © 2019 probuest llc lmages reproduced by courtesy of yale university library to purchale manufaaur’d goods to be confumed at home, when out money may be kept here to circulate among our (elves; and is fo neceilary to our commerce, and payments of out fleets and armies, without which, we can neither be rich or iafe. , that the great argument that is ufed in favour of the eng-india com- pany, is, that although they export great montitir: ry‘ bullion, yr: the} ﬁring in much more for the good: the} fell in foreign marlon. suppos- ﬁng their aﬂerrion to be true, this can be no argument againﬁ the prohibiting their manufaaures to be worn in england, and our plan- tations, but rather an argument for it; for whatis confumed at home, brings in no bullion; and if none be confutned at home,more may be fent abroad : for it will make the company more induﬂtious to ﬁnd out either new commodities to deal in, or markets for the vending thereof. whereby they may make their trade more proﬁtable to the nation. ' v it is alfo allcdged, in favour of the hoff-india trade, that there but of late year: horn great qnantitirt of engli/h cloth exported h] the company. to which this anfwer is to be given, that the cloth by them exported more than formerly, is not conlumed in india. but fent thence to per/fa; _ which hinders the ﬁlthy merchants, who formerly uléd to fupply thofe markets. soft-hat the boll-india company {ending away our cloth, pi'o‘ves no kdvahtagexto us, and is only done to gain agood opinion, and make the nation believe that their trade is not lb prejudicial to us as has been reprefé’nted. or as in reality it is. that the {ending but money to the earl-indies, to purchal‘c goods perfectly manufactured there, may advance lands, enrich the people, employ the poor in india : but fuch as are fpent here, in the room of our own manufactures, mull have the quite contrary eﬂ‘ea with us. whether it be for the lntereit of england, to settle the edi-india trade, without reliriétions, is humbly l‘ubmitted to the confideration of . the parliament.