(-52 ) to thoi‘e granted to the englifh eaﬁ'indie compa» ny at hrft, they would have foundthere was no reafon to charge his majeﬂzy with granting us fuch immenfe or unparallel’d privileges, or afcrihing ' it to his not well knowing what he did for the noif’e of the guns at newer, as this petulant scrih~ i let does. dedication, 1mg. 9. but if 3—h: and his suborners exclaim againﬁ: ' delign, p- 14. that the dutch were tickled with the ’ ‘ ' - c ' f: ii: ldb si ' the scotstrade' dimimﬂlthe authority by. which they were grant- - mm r a: afﬁrm 8 mm: m ’ our privileges as immenfe,’ they are refolv‘d to ed, and call it only by the name of. an oﬂrqy, whichﬁgfiiﬁes no more than a patent; whereas : out privileges were granted us by an adi of far- the gate}: it: europe : ntlius thro ignbi'arice or ma- lice theyl think ﬁt to.vilify his majefty’s conduéi and aetherity, which they pretendto defend. rentbelis;.(to be pr‘efum‘d) iii} the adph'éof thede- cation, where they -fpeak:'of his maj‘dﬁy’s promife to interpofe-bisﬁoyai! authority to do us right in cafe of- =' difturbancc, and that at rbapublick charge! (to be pro; - fum’d), :oﬁ his entire: kingdom. there- mightpoﬂié ' bly hare been fomemeed of their ptcjhmprion, had ' all mankind . been indoiir-‘d- iwith as :littie‘ senfe and - honefty'as- ._ .: r. and. his suhoi'ne'rs 3," for ma ether bodyicoaid ever preﬁl‘m‘e it to meaniany-thiné eife‘, ﬁncq our airs dﬂiiiot oblige e‘ng’mmi'. tho i' they,hadoprcfum’d that: iour'f enemies would take careltthehehe faid‘prdmifetlhould'mt békept, th‘é refuihllof'leriding our'colnﬁany the '3 menof wai- built ,at the,charge.o£oursown nation; would ,foonhaxhconvinc’d the lwonidthat they“ use pre- {um’dtodoruo .t- ~' ;; .‘o . 9:973 : '5’ sl,..we hare'htcou ntedjfor freieéting mt‘: dohgiesi's 'pmpofhi elfeivhere'; uncir j'ihall we tare-i more-21f 'hmees’s feurrilous 'thl‘eftidns: on: ﬁlm-‘3 'prft’e’iﬁirlﬁ ‘; . -. wnc ( .53 ) . which only difcover his own temper, but do that honeftzman no hurt. as to his charging us with i ﬂpumdrmg may 50000 1. on 6 hulk; a: amﬂerdam and ha mburgh, purely to make a wife of. our proceed ings, lite. we would deﬁne him and his subomers to reconcile it with what they fay from p. 14, to no. where they own themi‘elves that the dutch and hamburger: were both mightily pleas’d with the and p.16. they fayﬂ‘im: that which gum the deadﬂroige to the scots deﬁgn, was the eaft and weft—india companies running open momh'd to the lord: of am— . ~ . = iterdam ﬂsemin whatmas batching by the scots crim- llament, thh are greater and more facred than all ; mtg/frame} in theig city to mine the trade of the ”uni:- ; ed provinces. p. 17. they tell 135, that the ham- . burgers thought it the more their iﬂfsl‘c’ﬁf!) embrace . . . ' , ‘ is their}: dutch o’dit: 318.7%: ' their-malice15-furtherdemonitrat’ed-bothepa; ”"p’w‘ﬁ'r‘ 9mm ’ 9 opp 5 our aﬁair was generally ftwour’d [9! the badgers of - hamburg; and p. m. that the government offing— land first the senate of hamburgh ct caution by sir paul ricaut to take care how they fit cr’d their eusgbers to embark with us. so that here we condemn them from their own mouths: it being plain from thofe conceﬂions, that we did not: idlyfqzlander away our money at hamburgb and amtierdam 2, but that both thefe trading cities approv’d our dcﬁgn and would hare engag‘d in it, had no: the court oi‘ england and the dutch oppos’d it a and therefore what lofs of many we” ful‘tain’d in theft: places, mail: be charg’d to' theirac'count', fo. that-h :4 s hath veriﬁed the proverb, that liars have need of good memories. . , - this is not the onlyr lnftance wherein thofe of h . w: and his sober-nets 112 we giv’i} them the nip, forin' the 4tbp1gc‘ of the dedication, they i ‘ . e3 . . upbraid early engiish books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of burke library, union theological seminary