it; i 1? letter from ja maica, la (2 tania, l 0 nd 0 n, [slamming kianapping. _ . ’ sir, . . . i i l ‘ ours found me a little indifpos‘d ; but yet i made the bell enquiry my health and opportunity would give me leave to anfwer your deiircs. l the relation you have lent me of the great abufes in the spiriting away of children, makes a very fad story; and mult needs be a lamentable grief to' their parents that have loft them. you lhould have done well to have lent ’me the names of thofe that are milling ; or if you think ﬁt to have me look any ﬁirther into this buﬁ‘nefs, pray let me receive your further direétions at your belt leifure. we are not without apprehenﬁons here in this place for the diviﬁons in england ; i willi we may yet live to meet again in comfort and peace. the paper which i fend you here enclofed,is all i was able to do info lhort a time; but upon the truth of it you may depend. i do not know but you may ﬁnd in this lift fome unhappy people that you 100k for ,- and it would bew ell if you made ' a publication of it in one of the comon news papers: m‘r’. imam], or mr. curtis, l i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be fo notiﬁed, as that any of thofe l good people that have loft their children, may underlland whither to repair for fa; / tisfaétion. , if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your {elf to ’ mr.§‘ohn w! l m ore in fewer-fireer, who is a planter hiriiﬁilf, and knows l all the tricks of thol‘e rafcals. belides that, he isa man of buﬁnels in the city, a l large acquaintance, a true prateﬂam‘, and ( if i am not millaken) a cammorz-camcil— 3 man. he is very indull‘rious and charitable beﬁde ; and if there lhould be occafion, he is as likely to amlt you asany man i know: tho it were to go as far as the hope upon the errand, to fave a poor child from wm, and slavery. i need fay no more ' to you, than that if you have his friendlhip, he can tell you all the ways of the im- l pm: how they take up children, inviegle them away, and the conveieances they ”3 have for the ‘coneealing of them. thefe kid-nappy: will tell you perhaps that a " " child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compaﬂion; that they could not get quit of him, or perfuade him to come back it may be, the he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you mull geta difcreet juﬂice to examine the meter; fo the reft i leave to your difcretion. little will takes to hisbuﬁnefs very well,- and ihope his friends will have com- fort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance in your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults; for i mull immediately take my leave of you, ‘ and subfcribe my felf your affeétionate kinfman and servant, jill/l. if any perfon named in the following lift, lhall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be left with mr. walter davis, in amenscamcr, whori will give direé’cions how to make a further enquiry. . the number of whitest the number of wire: that d d' ' . t. 35%;}! mw. ye in my time 2. i'villz'am burma thoma: huglry. '3 3. gaorge sim/litre; peter peter/on. 4. urlan r079. _ ﬁlm gwartwriz‘e. > 5 5-. andrew reddali thoma: davies. i 6. w'i/lz'am pal/inn]. samuel mdglgl. _,_ é7;. gala}: groswn, sold in my time. . 1c ar evrtor. . , , . thoma: martyr. 1 8' ﬁltbatn santa" thomas border. j“ 2 9. mm: durham. 10. george french. ‘ . free. ii. thom/1.; morlrock. , w'zllzam ward. richard barret; —.-—~—h—_. ’ s a .m/ak‘c' “u,” . at y.,—\_. a m,“ ”a. ,3”, ¢m total of the white: -—--i i. , . 1-0“ at‘ law ~m__.___.__._ with fountain. ydmaim, detemb. 30. i 6 8 i, i