(43) houfe ladle, and another putting in 21 quart at a time. let the heat of the liquor be now tailed to 140 degrees of the common pocket thermometer, let this heat be continued one hour. skim it cares fully. to live gallons of w ater put ten ounces of white merle, t obaeeo pipe clay, or other white bo- lar earth: it you have not any of thefe, ten ounces of i‘llilci"s earth. let it be previouﬂy powdered, and well mixed with the water. stir this in as the lime and v'fater were (lireéied to be; incrcofe the heat to 160. continue it half an henna-shim. "increafe ‘ your limit ‘to t 90. continue it half an hoot-«skim. loci-cafe the fire to zoo, and {hut the door of your fire plate, which puts it out. let your liquor re.- nmin four eiours undiltur'oed, and then draw it off into the receiver: if your i’rocefs fucceeds your liquor will he as bright as madeira wine. 3 [ho-old obferve that when you have done ﬁlling one clorii'yer you go on to the next, repeating the fame l’rocel's. from the receiver your liquor is to to he conclufled into the firft copper. for fear of burning, you may throw :1 gallon into with copper hung to the {tune f ire, but after let your liquor run into the iil'lli copper: when full, by means of the groove it will ﬁll the fecond; and to on to the loft cot-per; when all are full let a fmall ftream run into ii-l tiill copper juit quieient to equal the evapora- {ion and keep them all full. by this management as the hut copper receives the {rent liquor, it’s con- tents will he conllantly diluted; the contents of the fee-0nd will be more dilute than lhofe of the third; anti ii) on to the lait copper; where the liquor will