or, the earl of effex. 29 their queen and i am weary of the load, _ ’ and want a ﬁriend like thee to lull my sorrows. c. eﬂ.’ behold thefe tearsf rung from ﬁercepain and joy, to fee your wond’rous grie , your wondrous pity. . o that kind heav’n wou’d but inﬂruét my thoughts, and teach my tongue fuch foftning, healing words, that it might charm your soul, and cure your break for ever. . mu. thou art my better angel then, an rent to give me everlaﬂing quiet 3 say, is’t no: pity that lb brave a man, . , g o 7. and one that once was reckon’d as a god, . ' that he lhould be the author of fuch trealbns? that he, that was like ‘caficr, and fogreat, ,1 has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou’d i’toopto gain a petty throne from me .2 . c. e]. i can’t believe ’tis in hissoul‘to think, ' - ;. ,' much leis to aéi: a treafon againﬂ' you, ' '_ your majeﬂ'y, whom i have; heard him 12) commend, that angels words did never ﬂow with ['0 much eloquence, lb rare, lb fweet, that nothin but the subjea: cou’d delérve. que». ha t thou then heard him talk of me?‘ c. eﬂ.‘ i have, 7 . ‘ ; and as of ('0 much excellence, asif: 7 he meant to make a rare encomium on the world, the stars, or what is brighter, heav’n. she is, laid he, the goddels of' her sex, ' ' 7 so far beyond all wom?n-kind~-b;¢fld9, - , , ; , o that what in them is mof’t adoredfantllov’d, . , ' ;_ ,; 5‘ . their beauties, parts, and other omamnta , - . l, ; ~are but? inher the foils togrutarlnflre, ' _ 7 i ' and all perfeﬁtions elfe, how'rare foever, ; are in her perfon but as leﬂ'er‘gleams, -' . - 73'.“ and inﬁnite beams that ulher» ﬁill the sun, j my , .7 i 3:32;. but fcarce are viﬁble amidﬂ'herother inﬁghting”; ; 7 ' .. _. .i, or and then lhe is fo good, it mighebefaidyg +7 ; o; o 1 that‘whilﬁ fheliires, a goddeﬁ 'r‘eignsjri ended j .1 g. 1;; 3 for all her laws are regeﬂer’d in heaven; 477,37, ; 3 and copy’dthence by her butrmen7he,-cry?d,‘. . - - , - :7 with a deep ligih fetch’d from-:hisnloyalheart3; ‘7;, , 3 ,7 , ; .7 ,. 1‘ wellmay the- odd mwiﬁrfh332liﬂlﬂﬁ§w§~”’arlt int". ; ’ ’7 '1 when fo much goodnefailhallaongﬁmlujaozmtdﬁ g. i a; i h and-wretched en land mange ﬂabmrnaﬂeamw .; ; ‘ queen. did he ay all this? , ~”: w . a ’ c. e .' alluthis! naygrnore; ; 4 ; . author: d tinnesz'as much,; i never ﬁw hinn i