(837} .«m ill. a letter of that carious naturaliﬂ mrhenry' barlaam, r s. st to the (publiﬂier, giving a ’re- lotion of it ﬁery lvictcot [fen by him, in iamaica, to ﬂri/(e into the earths with remy/<5 on the weather, earthquakes, sec. of that gland. s ir, ccording to your requei‘t i have collected what a i can remember, relating to a meteor i {aw in ‘jamnicrz about the year 1700, as l was riding one morning from my habitatir‘n ﬁtuated about three milesnorth-ﬂ’cﬁ from sr. ﬁgs de la vega : l tow a 8:.” of fire, appearing to me of the bignefs of a bomb, fwiftly falling down with a great blaze. as i thought it fell into the town; but when i came within a goat. ter of a mile of the town, 1 law many people gather’d together a little to the southward in the savanna, to whom i rode up, where they were admiring, at the ground’s being {trangely broke and plough‘d in by. a ball of fire. which, as they‘faid, .. fell down there. i obl’erved there were many holesin the ground, one in the middle of the bignel's of a man’s skull, and ﬁve or ﬁx (mallet holes round about it, of the iiigiiefs of a man’s fit}, and {2) deep (efpcciaiiy the bigg—gcﬂ) as not to be fathom’cl by what long switches or ssﬁicrs they had at hand. i did not hear that any was {0 cu. rious as to make any farther search : it was oiii'erv'o, that the green grai‘s was perfeétly burnt near the holes, and a ﬂrong smell of sulphur remain’d thereabozzca for a good while after.- note that we had a terrible rainy night before. wirh much lightning and great thunder-liam, whichl we ‘ rare 93’“? \ (‘2 the royal society is collaborating with jstor to digitize, preserve, and extend access to $52133 philosophical transactions (1683-1775). 5t0 r ® www.jstor.org