. bookel i. ofcersoamrl —-._.____._.. —_...‘.._. of cayenne”. bookell. m_w. . i 30 ‘ when he char lleers will hau'e his willj and driue them w he re he liil pe force. 50 reafon the-wes the truth ll] vaane, w here fond dellre as king doth raigne. .__-_.-i wt in—lu'ainc, teams, ﬁghts by night, by day enereafe illii paine. mﬁne eyes no eyes, but fountaines of'my teares, my teares no testes, but ﬂoodsto moyll my heart: myheart no heart, but labour of my feares, vacares no feat-cs, bot feelings ofmy (mart. my fmari, my feares, my heart, mytzcares, mine eies are blinde, dride,ipen:, pal}, waﬂed with my cries. _.._.__-._.--- xxxlil. c an 75 0 ne? lam: praperriu. ‘ 'r wixt heat and cold, t’wixt death and life, lfreeze and burne, i hue and die; which ioynrly worke in me ﬂieh i hire, 1 line in deatlmn coldl fry. nor hot, not cold, llui’ hue, nor dead, neitl1er,and both, zlus llfe i lead. a nd yet mine eieé, though blind, {ee'caufe of griefc, and yet my teares, though d:ide,runnedowne amaine: and yet myheart, though l'pent, attends reliefe. and yet my feares. though pail, enereafe my paine. and yet i liue, and lining feele more fmart, and fmarting,cryin vaine, breake heauy heart. _ firﬂ banning heate fees all on ﬁre, ? w'herehy l feemeiu flames toﬁ'y :. i: then cold delpaire kils hot deﬁre, 3 that drenched deepe, in death llye. heate driuesout cold,aud keepes my life; cold quenched] heate,s my end of ﬁrife «nun—u".- xxxu. ca nz 0 ne t. ~ deﬁne: gammmmr. v here wit is ouer—ruld by will, v and will is led by fond deﬁle, t! ere re1fon were as good be hill, in fpeﬂing, kindle greater ﬁre, i? or where delire doth b05111: the l'wsy,’ the heart mull rule, the head obay. - the leltel hope to haue mywill, the more i feele elel'ireremn-eafq1 . and as delire enereafeth hill, ' defpaire to q uenehie dozh now: ee: 12-. so liue l as the lamps, whoiclight . .. of: homes, of: gees, new dim, new: bright. ‘ 4 ' 1' - k 3. meg .» ; . what bootrsthe cunning pilotssl—cill, ,totell ellicl‘l gray to ihnpe their courier: early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library