west moms. ! 79 and fuddenly to abolifh the exiﬁence of the com- merce would not be produétive of real difadvanta- ges, in place of effecting the end deﬁred by thofe who are eager for fuch {trong and fpeedy meafures? for folving this important queﬂion, we mutt take into view, not only the ﬁtuation of the ﬂares in africa, but of thofe already in the weft indies. in the ﬁrﬂ place, it is fall‘e reafoning to fuppofe that britain, withdrawing her {bare from the gene- ral demand, will eﬁ'eét a decrvafe of the quantity brought to the market; for although in other kinds of commerce the fupply is generally regulated by the demand, yet in this inflance the rule will not hold. when two african ﬁates are at war, the captives are dealt with in preportion to their ﬁrength and appearance. the old and inﬁrm are mall‘acred on the fpot; fuch as are able to travel a long- journey are led to the fea-coaﬁ, and of thefe all who are rejected are immediately put to death. from this it appears, that were britain to withdraw her demand, there would be left a fuperabundance of about 38,000 every year, who, unlefs bought up by other nations, mutt inevitably be facriﬁced to the difappointed avarice of the black trader. in- ftances, indeed, of this barbarous praétice are fo numerous, that they have been frequently perpe- trated in ﬁght of our own {hipping ; fo that in this cafe the remedy becomes abundantly more horri- ble than the difeafe. secondly, let an unprcjudiced mind reﬂect upon the ﬁtuationpf the remaining negroes, in the we“; z ij