:15: wait: cameos as the ethiope cannot change his skin , nor the leopard alter his new; a; as it is-‘not poﬂibleto gather grapes ofthornes, or figges ot thiﬁles : in i: is to no purpofe to force any thing to ﬁriue againl’c nature. . as in tiilingofthe ground and hull bandrie, there it ﬁril choi'en a ﬁrtile foile, theme cunning [inneri then gnod feed :enen {n we mull compare nature to thefatearih,the expert llnsiaandman tethe seheolernaﬁer, the faculties and feiences to the urefeeds. as the fertilrl‘oile i’fil. be neuer tilled doeh was barren : fo that which is moli nobleby nature, ismademoﬁ vilcbg ‘ negligence. _ as the torch turned downeward is extinguifhed with the felfef'ame ware, which was the caul'e of his light : l‘o nature turned to vnkindneﬂ'e is quenched by :hofe memes it [hould bee kindled, leaning no branch of louc, where is found norooteofhn- amenitie. ken”: early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of university of illinois library patna". * keller. : s cooke: with for a lentifuﬁ' breed of eattcﬂ, _ and. ﬂam’ of ﬁihes : ['0 buﬁebtaincdilmouateﬁ-doe hunt after newes , and innouaeion-in ratespinr. ' .~' :1. as wee fee vp meate’ﬁ-omeate and dog es : ['0 we muﬁ take heed,whae we. [pea e before newes mougers, land in- ﬁnuaring intelligencers. idem. ai our bodies are more indengered hy-thesprin ,8; in autum'eib reefer; of-change :. goal! noueltie'dot ofﬂine! and hurrtlie common-wealth. ' aachen e ofmeate, dr-inkeandaire doth oﬁeng , albeit in be into like, or into better : {n it is bane; ﬂill to re- tain: our old prince: and mngiﬂraees ,. thenro ganglia: new, became all in- nenatiou isfull ofdanger and. ciiﬁur.r hence. _ m m» called hem-ﬁamthe' dﬂdﬁl e other caul'e, butzto know from whatplrmtagn he was defeendede- [0 may take greaepainres1 and bellow much col! , only to been: times, emf. kmwnoneltles. eli'ejib. 3.93413. 2. . r 5. 31*...— parcel