ibt- :m- km! {ea in; {'le {/h- h 1': day lsuf ftcr dm- 'lds, lens 1 in ul‘. \‘cs, ph)- nor they cm :r of f the rﬁhc dney icing ioral e, be for is .18. i“ n'mg cry. hold- {hare lctus dimi- polli- tality rousi’ irvic- :e the l nei— ihlhc on be )r. texil )l)ind iltrel‘s which ibtlcls our duty to contribute our (hare; and to a& from confci- [5 cure, as we {hould in limilar cafes from feeling and inclination. for intiancc ; lct nb l'uppol'e the algerincs to cllablifh fugir nlanta‘itions, and refort tothc banks cf the thames for {lave}. suppofc our wives, our hulbands, our children,our parents,our brethren, {wept away, and the fruit of their labour, produced with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs,landed at the port of london. what would be our conduct i’ should we fay, “sugar “is a nco'ffarv nflifc: i cannot do without it. bejides the quantity i “ u/c it .int/irull: and thong/z it be very rriminal in [he algerian-lo en- “f/ we of/m‘r, i am not maud to luv/t (o the nature or conﬁ uent‘etft/tc " ‘sxz n/iftzon. pnyiugfur (/icfugar, i’lcn'ta right to coryiumc it, honi- "t’z'dr a; m {v hive 5cm min/nd. " lf l'uch would be our language in that cafe, be it to on the prcl'ent occaﬁon. for let us recollca that ltl both cities the etillavcd are our brethren. and let us only l'uppol‘c an‘ engliihman were to receive inju- ties, that bore but the tlightclt relemblance to thofe daily com- mittctl in our llljlltls, the nation would be inﬂamed with refcnt- lthfll, and clamorous to avenge the injury. and can our pride in gull, that the rights ofmen are limited to any nation, or to a- ny colour? were any one to treat a fellow creature in this cauti- tt'v as we do the unhappy africans in the wcﬁolndies; {truck with horror, we [hould be zealous to deliver the opprellcd, and puniihthe oppreflot‘. are then the ofﬁces of humanity and func- tionsofjuftice to be circumfcribcd by geographical boundaries? can rcalbn, can coni’ciencejultify this contralt in our conduct, between our prom titude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the other?—-mr. addtl'on jultly oblcrvcs, that “ humanity to be- come cltimable mutt be combined withjuftice." but we {eem to aé‘t as if we thought. that the rcliefofour fellow creatures, and proteétion from injuries, were works of fupcrcrogation ; to be granted orwith-hcld, as caprice, or inclination may fuggell. after the important coutidcrations adduced, it might be rec- koned a degradation of the {object to mention the national dig- nity; or even that might induce us to counteract a powerful bo- dy of men, who are tramplin 4 under foot, the dictates of huma~ nity, and the interctt ol'thc nation: men, who have received for £1ng alone, above a million pcrann. more than it would have colt at other that kcts. from mr. bothmn's evidence it a peart, that in batavia, where labour is as high as in england, logare. qual to the belt vl'ell-lndia, is fold at id’; per pound. thcfe are the men who are calling on us‘to aid the operation ofthcirwhips bv the terrors ofour bayonets; and to mil'apply the public trea- l'uie to liipport individuals in violating everv principle of law and jullice, and to defend them in the molt dreadful tyranny over halfamillion of perl'ons, born in illands, which, when it ferves their urpol'e they pretend to he curs; but of which they have virtual y ul‘urpcd the l'ovcreignty : and have the audacity to tell thcliritilh iegillature, "that they numot aboliih the “av: trade; for that if england refufcs to furntih them with ﬂavcs.