, the epiftle dedicatery; piolcnt .? and on the contrary, upon the ind a the sun, jupiter, and venus, they be niit morgpggtilgf a hﬁﬁhﬁhnmﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁhﬁhﬁ mild, and refrigerating 3 and aljo, whether the ariﬁng tbe name: of the [808701 g 0 ive rn 0 ll rs ofyonr pleiades, hyades, and conjtellated eagle (m. ‘ (chieﬂy when any eminent conjnnélion or afjiea fajllr in with them) do not certainly induce moiﬂnre .9 i i hdeechyon ( my honoured and worthy f riendr ) to take jome notice of thefe matterr, which you may eaﬁly ,- a i. thc honourable c do, by keeping a diary of the weather 5 a: ' ejfeéi‘r of your vernal ingreﬁr, (which i inzzijtflq‘letfl permitting me life, once a year to prefint yon withals) andpray ye alﬂ) ohﬁ’rve, together therewith, the tranﬁtr 'conjnnétzom, (are. of the planet: over the prime part; of)” _ your [ﬂandy palladium, or geneﬁs; that they ma he preﬁrved by your generous communication, at wellyfbr the advance of trnth in science, as advantage of your selvey and country. thin, worthy f riend: and country/men, wijhing you all happineﬂ, and, a; ﬁt many ﬂicccﬁfnl ‘columbus’r, to encreaje as well in your acqttaiittance with the inﬂu- encer of the glorione diamond: of heaven, as in the gold and treafhre of the indies; which ( if s t. paul‘may . heict‘edzted,rom.i.19.) will lead ye certainly unto an enjoyment of that immortal treafitre, of which saintr and angelr partake in heaven 1 remain, \ toyonr honoured solver, and to the brick-court 'by truth; of ajirolo i ) 6’, cl rt? 1 the deane-tard, servant, whigﬁ, 6‘ i’vejlminjier. . t _ john gadbury, ’3 ; .f'a the. of i a m a ic a, ﬁnce the taking thereof by the engiifh, anno i 65 5 . ‘ 01. d’oyley, was govers nour thereof, ﬁrlt after its being taken. . 2. the right honourable the lord of windﬂire, was governour thereof. \ t 3. the honourable sir thomas modyo‘ord, knight and baronet, was governour of this noble illand 5 and he it was that commanded :1 general surveigh to be taken of it, at his own charge; and under him it began eminently to flourifh. ‘ . . the honourable, and valiant sir thoma; lynch, knight, fuccceded sir thomas mod yford, and is the prefent governour thereof a. and under him hath this gallant country happily improved. i3” in my next years book, i [hall (god permit- ting, ) give you a more ample chronology of the remarkable; relatingj to ~this noble bland; together with an ac‘eount ol the commodities, and growth thereof. mm— ' a table ‘_