d; l ell notonlii , and ht :ople ill alon olt‘ :d con. ture, in; ey are i [1 [rm f m llllllll , ingltnlli mullet!» ; g or tlrrli lplf froth 90m ll: gt re lo {cull ' 1e interl :he lamel owledgmﬁ atioﬂylmt drab r ._ " that as maybe 'vt'rginid trade; ivhich brin is. reatefi advanta e to ns“ majeﬂyag theamembams of ireland are in a 'gnaignner wholly cutgol’l~ from $th :i'rgde, except they willidi‘ive it to the utter ruin of the kingdom. (which they refolvenot to do) for neither proviﬁon, n‘or horfes will go off at vzrgimdinorare-serva’nt's’ to be had to fuch numbers as to en- able that trade; and the export of their manufacture is prohibited. r so that if they will drive that trade, they mull do it with calh, and myriall the littleimoney they have into smoak, or be at the exceliive- charge, doub_ie'11§23‘§d andexpence of time, to come unto, and return through e’ﬂgldnd with that ( as all‘other plantation commodities) i » tithich‘hath octaﬁt‘med frequent 1-06 of seafons, and of ships and car— g’o’s tothe'lofs of the duty to his m’aje'liy, and ruin of many merchants, , as they made appear in very manyldeplorable inﬁances, too long to be- hér‘einferted: ' ' ; . i 'tthﬁya that whereas by an act of the .25. car. 2. forbetter {e4 curing’theﬁplantationl trade; it is . enacted, that if any ship of vega]; which by law may trade in any 6f the plantations, {hall come to take on board any plantation commodities, and that bond {hall not be ﬁrﬂf given, with fufﬁcignt surety to bring them to england, wales, or bdr— mdfc‘bbado: 8 d. per cent. on‘tobacco .1 dyer nd, (j-c. which afford? éa, fome‘eafe to the diftreﬂed merchants of ”ireland in” returning, with-‘ (‘mt‘being neceﬂitated to-cometoiehglmd toenter. tet that door dlﬁ)‘ hath been {hut again}? ireland by the artiﬁce of the arbitrary comm/ﬂamm- of‘the ctr/tom: in england. for contrary rothe plain import of that law, there mar a ship of england which paid thdthmy in the pldﬂtatiom, feized ditﬂcmziémhed, under pretehce thdrthnt‘aé} "11545207213: intehdedfor-the trade i .. mic? that there {hall be paid there on wh'gp sugarss 5-1167“ cw~ oil-t 9“ tamed plantation and‘pldﬂfﬂtbo”, e'klr'byrgb’t‘bm' is“ bathing in the a5? the: ' give: comt'emmce to that garzﬂrm’tion. ’ ' ‘ that tho’ the manufaétures of ‘irélmtd ar‘el‘few, and‘that the molt con- ﬁd’e‘rable of them is linnen, which interferes not with the manufaé’cure‘ : op‘engldnd, and that the quantity exported in timesof free trade to the plantations was but'fmall, yet the suﬁenance of a good number of p the moﬁ neceiﬁtous of their i’eople depended“ wholly on‘that little, and {they cannot fubﬁﬁ‘bal'elli'by'ail‘s more than the people of eng- tfadeg ;the diﬂicultygif notimdpofﬁbility ( now) to grow rich by hide; and the ‘c‘jgapfﬁfs of lan‘ ,_ rather‘t'han’l‘radeff’ ﬂ . ' x .. ., . tginétives" 'pa'uci-ty ’of‘ ”1‘35““sz "little demand of the native comer ﬁddiﬁes in forrei'gn- markets, the war“ 0f 3“)" petnhar cnmmoditv; \ i that by reafon of the eaﬁnefs to fubﬁf’c in ireland, the, refiraints on. , , . 1, merchants are inclined to purchafe‘ atffrom'nence": and the mean way of living of‘