early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc .dam : then ’twas high time r) 1 6 concerning aliens sir patcr'kr‘l/igrcw's; ll‘tayed but few hours atjpenryii (the wind be; ingat northme/i, [which was lair to-fet sail for hal/4nd,) but went that night for folmomh; where i found that my information was true, and itbeing' sunday the nextday, i intended only to havc'an eye upon the ship, and._on [manda] to cxamineintd the truth ol the whole. but on smm’a; morning, to my lbrptize, l was invited to dinner by sir peter; accordingly [_ waited on him, and after din- uer he took me aﬁde, and told me divers things relating to that hhi which madame very much admire, for-that! knew sir pmr wss’ not hreda merchant, and that this ship in particular was drl'patth‘d by mr. bryan rogers a great merchant in that place: but i' {non found out the meaning ol‘ his being f0 earneﬂ, and it was this sir pmr it’ll/grow had a little before built a key at the rump mid of thetown of folmmh, and houfes thereon; which key he got b friendfhip to be declared the only publick key for shipping and no}: loading of goods and merchandizc, according to the art?! at fraud: 140m. 2. which did belong to that torvn and other ports adjacent (though to that very place it” is no more proper, than for all the goods that comcinto london to be landed at karol/11’s) and a merchant dwelling in the body of the ' own, near the market? place, protelied that the charges of landing his goods at that key, and bringing them to his houfe, colt him as much as the fraight thereof from plymmth did, (which is about 20 leagues di- rang) alro the .culiom—houfe (96. was newly fettlcd there and tluslwas. the ﬁrii ship of any great concern that everhadunloaded at that key, which had aétcd foill, thathedoubtedit might admi- other new matter of debate, (9'6. in ﬁne, i promifcd-sir j’mr not: to act any thing till morning, and then would be as moderate as the cafe would poﬂibly bearj and sir peter promifed the ship (bein called the experiment of london, hear] sutton maﬂcr,) {hhuld nag: ﬁir; and (0 we parted, withintcmion to meet again next morni - qn-which i went towards my lodging and in the way-met mr. .04.: melshemll‘the surveyor, with whom i had fome difcourle, and then went tntomy lodging, being the sign of the force, kept b mr. dennis rujs'el, notary publick, and then mayor of the town - i had not been there long before mr. mayor came accidentally intt; our company, and faid,hc though: the oyaker was mad, (meaning sutton the matter of theb'hip) [or that he um: hunting about, /ar hi: men (age: them unheard, in order to [at sail immediately for amﬂér- it me to liir, and accordingly i did, . ’ ' getting images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library trading in england i7 getting on board as foon as poliibly i could, where i laida [top on the ship, put wayters on board. etc. to fecureher; and becaul‘cl knew all the ofﬁcers in palmomh had {ome hand in her illegal dir- patches, @‘c. and that i could depend on the friendlhip of none there bttt mr. george wuhiell deputy culiomer, and mr. peter hill land-wayter; i rent to mr. thomas en): colleétor of pcnxjn for aﬂiﬂance, which i readily had, and fo the ship was liopt: the next morning early, lhad notice that the mr. endeavoured to force his way, on which 1 applyed to major collin: deputy governour of pmdcnuirch/llc, under the right-honourable my lord amado! of trot-ice, for aliiliance' in cale of necellity ; who frankly complycd with my requeli, and alfured methc ship {hould not go ottt with- out my order; then i returned to meet sir peter killigrew at (‘uliom— home, where i found both him and mr. regen; i told them on what grounds [hadiiopt the ship, that the goods were forfeited by the acts of tummge and poundage the 12 article to the book of ram, and by other sums/er, they being 79w: goods‘ which ought. topay a'licn cuitom, and contrary to law had been all entred in the name of hem“; sutton an eogli/lmmo: they both fecmed con-- cerncd at the difcovery, and ul'cd many arguments to perﬁvade me to let theship pafs; audparticulatly, for my fodoing, llhottld have so gm’mp, and the belt horfe sir peter had .- but all their arguments prevail'd no farther with me, than that {would give thcma meeting again next morning, by which time i had got the following information from ﬁve sea-men belonging to the lame ship on oath,tiz.. e thomas bummer, richard randall, v ' nicholas downing , thomas dawfon, stamens .\l‘_ and robert adamfou mariners, intel] belonging to the good ship, the experiment of london, henry sutton maﬂer, of the linrrhen of'rhru hundred tun: or there ahmrr, laden with sugars and other commoditiu, harmdfrom the [flood of barbadoes to fame port of england , and from thence to antlicrdam: .and upon the hoiyevangelill do freely and voluntarily swear, that they arrivm’ln the port of falmourh in rho kingdom of england, on or «hour the 27th. day of september lo/i‘ poo/1‘ from thefat'd lﬂmd of barbadoes. and rho/’2 deponegrti farther {a}, that lhegrenteﬂ quantity of rho sugars and 115071. c/mndizcs loadou on hoard the [aid ship, do really helmg ro lows, and particxlarly to aaron barfcoe, abrahag barrali'e, om' reclrigo msd lewis illix'tl'i ‘7’: .t— ~:‘c'- _~____..o_ ‘... _ - “mrx.lm~.*__—_ do -2