book vi. mm of b a r ‘b a d10 8. 165 pursl‘ain, white am! red; thes e differ very little, if any thing, from thofe in england, ' except in the ranknel's of their growth here. they are generally boiled and ufed, when more valuable green's are not in plenty. the arabian jessammy; lat. jasminum ﬁve sambac arabum. thi s is a woody creeping vine, cloathed with dark reen {harp—~ - pointed leaves, of about two inches long, and one broad, beara ing seven-leaved white fragrant, flowers. thefe are fupported by seven very fharp—pbinted graminous leaves. ‘ ‘ this is planted chieﬂy in gardens3‘16r near dwelling—houfes. it yields a very agreeable fragrant smell, and keeps its verdure all the 'tithyma'loides. the roots of this are very numerous and firong. t _ the main stalk branches near the! earth, into many fpiral ﬂrorig w1 3, the bark of the trunk, near the roots, is ﬁnooth and whitifh ; but all its branches of a deep {hining green, keeping their grateful verdure undiminifhed thro’ every seafon of the year. . . , . .p q thefe are cloathed with thick fucculent green round-pointed leaves, of about four inches long, and two in breadth, having their fmooth edges a little tinged with yellow. thefe are likewife fet on the branches alternately. the flower, which is of a ﬁne deep red, cannot be reduced to any clafs that hath hitherto been defcribed by any botanical writer, it being a triangular {harp—pointed fmall horizontal sheath ; the top of the piﬁil jutting out, making the extremity of the longeft angle: this, on the in- ﬁde of the flower, is covered with a yellow arinaceous duf’c. from the fame narrow aperture appear feveral ﬁnall stamina, tipped with green apicer. 4 ’ '_ ' thefe flowers are fuc‘ceeded by triangular {mall berries, of a dark red when ripe. r ' _ *: each of thefe i11clofes three angulariseeds. the berries, branches, and leaves, are full of a thick glutinous milky urce. the only place that i have feen this was at cluﬂ’r bay), in st. lucy’s parifh. this very feldom grows in any other part of the iﬂand. the