'ea ilyénqiieﬁ 3‘33“ online, copyright © 2019 proquest m i 92 a choice manrza!,or,' tho doﬁe is one or two morning and evening. ﬁle virtue of aqua mo rim. it 15 good for all lnﬁl‘mitics of the spleen and to open the obflron fpoonfols l elloos thereof; it comfortcth the . vxtal parts and is good a ' ,_ gamll all pallions of tho heart; it prolon— veth the meat to the ilomach from putreﬁté‘non; 1t holpah digelli- oo?ioddcxfpolleth wind. o o o s time. 1 one fpoonf'ul at one tbs vimm of flower: of rofomor fit as good againil all ioﬁrmitigs emil}? ﬁomfooh, andfgo fopprefs all n we limos ri m u f thence to the head, g 53 rom kce in them own, and helpcth mas-loo?“ it oponcth all floppio s of the liver and milt, it prevgntcth vertigo, scotomm, falﬁos, apoploxiesl t i~ loafcs of that kind ariﬁng from cold humours, itbrcaketli wind and eafeth tho cltolick. i the dofeis : fpoonful a: s time. the _m_,....._.......—- - ,gn- -- .w—— rare secrets in pbyﬁﬁ 5&- _193 the virtue: of safari: of mint. 1: is good for t e itomoah, and ilreogthoos the rctcntive faculty, good agaioﬂ vomiting, and all paf- lions oftho heart, it comfortoth the vital fpiritsood is good agamft the coniumption , 1t oxpelleth wind, and holpcth digeﬂioo, and is an infallible help for all melan- choly. '1” he dofo is from one to two fpoooluls. .le v imm- of aqua theriacalis. ' it is good agamil all difoafos of the spleen whatloover 3 it pron vcntcch and helpeth contagious, and {widen opprcﬂions and qualms of the heart. the oofe is one ﬁwoonl‘ul to pro- virus, and 3 to the infcﬁcd, who ought; to i'woat after taking it. 27"}: virmf: of spiro: of s afﬁrm: it is gooé to comfort the vital. spirits, willows, trembliog, and m rooﬁvonoi‘s of the heart , and. ltlpctll all maligoity oyprtﬂiiﬁ _ 1t, 1 images reproduced by courtesy of eniversity of glasgow library