of the i [and of barbadoes. a gallon, the people drink much of it, indeed too much; for it often layer them aﬂeep on the ground ,and tha'tis accounted a very unwhol - fome lodging. ‘ 3' '-' ' ~ ’ a the eight for: of drink is beveridgei made offpring water; ‘white betrridgr- :ugar, and juyce oforengcs, and this isnot onely .pl'eafant bn't whol- omc. l ‘3 " ‘ the lai‘t and bel't fortoi' drinke that this iland" 'or" the world ai- wine of fords, is the incomparablc wine of pine: 5 and it certainly the neaar pm“. which the gods drunkegfor on earth thereis none like it 3 and ihatis made of the pure juyce of the fruit it felfe, without eommixru're of water,or any other creature, having in it felfe, a naturall compound of all taﬁes excellent, that the world can yield. this drink is too pure to keep long; in three or four dayes it will be ﬁne; ’tis made bly preﬂing the fruite and ﬁrayning the liquor, and it is kept in bot - t es. having giiren you atafie of the bread, and drinke this iland aifotds,which will ferve any mans palate, that is not over curious 5 i could tell you what we have of borh fans that is brought to us from other parts ofthc warld; as biskets, 5th fine and coorfe,‘ barrels of meale cloie put upawhich comes to us very fweet from england,‘ and' holly»: 5 of which we make bread, pye-crufi, and puddings. and for drink good engliih beer,french and spauiih wines, with others,fome from the emu/jamsjume from hull, one of the [lands of a am 5 so we cannot juf’tly complaine ofwant, either of bread or drin , andtfrom england,fpirits,fome of anni(eeds,fomeofmint,f0me of worm wood, 8tc. and from fr4h£(,3rlnd},which is extreame lirong, but accoun- ted very wholfome. having iven you a juﬂ account, as neere as my memory will ferve of the brea and drinke of this iland : the next thin is the feverall fortes of meat we have there 5 and becaufe hogges ffeih is the mall general] meat,and indeed the bell the [land affords, i will begin with that, which is(with‘out queﬁion)as good, as any can be ofthatkind: for their feeding bein as goodsas can grow any where, the ﬂeih mutt needs be anfwerable; ruitgthe nuts oflocuﬁ, pompians of a rare kind, almoft as fweetas milions,the bodies of the plantines, and bonanoes, sugar-canes,and mayes, being their dayly food. when we came ﬁrﬂ upon the iland,l perceiv'd the ﬂies they made to hold them,were trees,with the ends lying croﬂ‘e upon one anorher, and the inclofure they made, was not large enough to hold the numbers of hogges were in them, with convenient diliance to play and ﬂitre themfelves for their health, and pleafure; ii) that they were in a manner peﬂerd,and choakt up,with their own ﬂinke, which is (me the moﬁ noyfome of any other bea it, and by reafon of the suns ,' heat much worfe 5 i have [me]: the ﬂinke of one ofthofe ﬂies down: the wind, neera mile, through all the wood: and the crouding and thrufiing them to clofe together, was certainly the caufe of their want of health,w hich much hindre’d their growth 5 so that they were nei- ther fo large,nor their ﬂefh f0 fweet, as when they were wild, and at their own liberty,and choyce of feeding. . for] have heard major hilliard fay : that at their ﬁrﬂ comming there, they found hogges; that one of them weighed ( the intrals be- ing taken out, and the head 05) e00 weight. and now at the time of -myw t mat afigl/ kinds. .7. 1'3" 3- e...» q’wm p... r .4 .‘ , . ~.e;:;~_ - «we _~...-........: 'w». «“1 an :34. 3 rs.