b o 0-1:. i. (31—1111). 1:111. :09 their intercit, fucceeded to well, as to obtain the order of his 11121- jeliy, in council betbre-mentioned; in confequence of which, feve- ralaftions, that had been inliitntetl, were floppedhy 1:01;" girafcgaig and the complainants oblineci to fit clown unredreﬁed; but with this furthc: agtava tion of hardihip, that they had been cntmpped, by the terms ofthe piocl...mation, to expend {10m two to three hunu dredpouttds each, in the vain hope of bringing the ofiiautlers to: juflicc.“ the proclamation had relirié‘ted the delinquents to their fees alone, “ as had been aﬁahlifhcd on proper authority.” but they had no authority whatever, except their own will and plea- fare, for eﬁablifhing their exorbitancies , thele weze even to tllltlcd. neither on ufage not prefcrfiption;o f 1. i have ﬂwwn, that they had not exified above twenty-one years, they had originally arilien ' 11y triﬂing deviations from the 2161 of 171 1 ; to {mail at ﬁrl’c, per-- haps, as not to delizrve eppoﬁnon; ‘orfo. model‘tly demanded, as not to provoke it: at length, they grew to furpafs all limits, and were neither required. not paid, without frequent altercation and. clifpnte. hatlthis then any colour init of legal tillage? the only proper authority,o111111ich t11111_}uf1: fees could he eliahliihed, was. {91116 known law: the lawof 1711, which 1egulated and declared. their fees, was this proper authority; there exified no other law for the purpofc. \vith refpcft then to jamaica, it follows, that, by the very terms of the proclamation, they were tied down to de- mand and take no other fees than what that law allowed them. is it 1101;11:11ng therefore, that, in lefs than a twelvcmonth following this poﬁtive injunction, the opinion and judgement of things ihould, upon an interefletl mifreprefentation, hefo totally changed and per- vetted, 21.51 to fufpend the eiteé‘ts of the proclamation; to concur withthe parties in deeming the law ohfolcte ; and, further, even to ratify {och cxaé‘tions, intcmperate as they were beyond all hounds- “ moving from their olliccs,:1nd directing the attornt-y- general to picnccme, all {111.11 oilncm, or “ their ,tll-putics, as 1111111111.:ttite or rccciw nth-.1 than thcit legal 11:15. " in jnl), 1703, his 1:}:- ccllency informed the atto111ey-gcneral, “ that 11111111111 not proceed to trial of the inliirnuuions: “ ‘gigainl‘t 11133111111111: ofﬁcer-.1, as a copy of the report of the lords of mule 111111 plantations, to the “ lurch: committee of 1111: privy-council, was come to iii-.1 hands; and that he daily expected, in con~ “ 1" '1lenfc thereof, an onlcr hem the king in council to himfeli‘ to put :1 lion to the 1:10. "commas.” not long alter this, the :11111111c1'- ~1re11c1al 1ecci1cl 1111 111111.111 letter iiom his cxccllcncv, com— manning him “ to enter ‘m “:fng/e'gui on all the inlornnuions; his maieﬂy’ 3 order in council ior “ thatpurpofe 11:11.3, ' 1111's: artirtd.” of k