‘i 53 plrﬂry cook; put it into “your mfxeurc. boyling it you can, r10: l-eavuag any thing at all 1n the bottoms of ruoporrongcr. mix well togﬂthcr' all their: iugrcw dicors, uotill fuch time as this {aid mould or pails be wel nigh become cold 3 after which let it cool for the {pace of out: half hour longergandfo lot it grow to allifnellc; and in [he moan while you may proparothe iollowing lemon? which you mull begiuto make one‘quartcr ofan hour after you {hail have ﬁtted you: pails. ' now :0 make this faidloavcn, you mull place a quarter ofa. pound of ﬂower {egon your dreﬂrr board, and makoa. trench in it, and put iri- to'it half a quarter of a. place of good thick leavcm adds: a little milk or cream unto it, let it bro hot, that-[o you may reduce your ﬁlial ingroclicnrs into a fol: 8.: gluilh' pulle, which you may do inknrad- log of it well upon your rlroﬂor board; and having rhroughly koozrw ded your fold paﬁe, you may make irup into the {hope of a loaf, and let - u .__.~d wmwﬂ j . . . - i early english books dnline, copyright © 2019 proquest ilc images reproduced by courtesy of british library f’aﬂry-claakl 1'69” "lot it. ['0 roll for 3. quarter ofén hour; or there-abouts, or u'ntiﬂ fuch- ﬁrm; as the leaveu bcc well rtfcu, whrch as? oforcl'oicl you may'knowwh on your paf-lc begiuuos to crack or fpli‘t;-audi ou mull: remember. to keep-your 3 cover: place. ' as [0011 as your laid lcavenbcé ginncs to bro fplitaor to crack at top, youmufl: mingle it with rhc‘aforo- {hid paﬁc; and—working them veg wall together, you may afrcrwar make one mould of all the {aid pallo and lcavcn;rogcrher5--and make a kind ofaloafof it; placcitupoue. {heat of aper, and frame ir'iur‘o ‘thc lhapeo acako, and giveit about a thurnbrcdtlrs thickncfs,afrcr which varnilh it: andlcrirlyc by; a good hour infummer, and two boursint winter, and puticiutoa placerhat is not very cold. ' when this your ca kc is thus pro-j pared and ready to be: put into tho oven: you may mill: it into :1 cof- ﬁu of paﬁo, audlllicc the upper part; .. o in an indifferent warn”:-