.' 11:36] is clear that laying on of hands wee viﬁbiy done, outwaxdly apparent,‘ simon faw 1:,” furely then praier was vocal and apparent, theyb’oth did pray; and not as form would have mono did pray vocallie , and the other meoralhe. but fame may quaerle further, did they lay on hands both a: a time, via. peter and john? erul the text is no: clear in that particulanona lie clue text faith thus‘ much) they laid on their hands on the samaritam, the-35in the plural! number. i [hail fay no more as to theie cit- eumﬂances,l hope thofe which are judicious willnor. [land upon {och nicenies as :hefe are, but rather will mmd fobﬂantialsgnd {o i [hall deﬁreche readcrto make his progteffe unto the sex: particular, and leave the unto conﬁ- deration. ‘- c h a 1:. i i ii, i: cant rm‘ng the and: whereﬁre lying on ofand: it 2‘: to be admimﬁred upon wept:- zed éelr'g'verr. am noeignorantthattbe whole weight of the cootrovrrﬁe lies in the clearing up 0 this point, and why? beca ufc theze hath been :1 gt'eatdealof diﬁerence amongﬁ {wimp}; . , o -. a‘ early english books oniine, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of christ church library, university of oxford ‘ . ‘ £37] of god -,; and that stem the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers; and alfo the ends wherefore they were laid up- on baptized believers in former timesghc'con- tendon about this aim hath been fo much the flronger,becaufe o fame centrarie ends which have been propofed by form if: 0 poﬁtion‘u‘ﬁ-' to {hole eighe ends which “hall here lay down} ‘and becaul'e we may obfewe a right order and method fo'r‘the proﬁt ollall,‘ .i {hall :herc‘fore ﬁxﬁ lay clover: chofe ends which i judge to be of mail ﬂeehgth and_'life_for the maintenance of wheels formerly laid down; and then 1 513,11 come in the next place to ca verthrow thofe foppbfed ends which axe brought in by others. in the ﬁeﬂ place i {had aﬂumaba: one end wherefore perform are 'to‘ ' have hands laid on them, is, thaefothey may be puzintoa fora. the: capacieie of going on to perfeé’cioa. i would not here be miﬁaken , i do nor fay o- thers who have no: fubjeé‘zed unto this princi- ple are no wales in a capacicie of going on to perfeaioa s bu: this is that ido aﬂirm,oame.. ly, that ehofe baptized believers who have ubjeéi'ed unto this truth,are put into a further way ofcapacieie ofgoiog on to perfeaiooj, and thmfore this is one end wherefore 5:151:32: u a