a fingle perfon,‘-fomething like ajkingl- _ . ‘ proteé’tor; or prbjeéior rathersjeyelling‘ _i‘ _: _ , 7 , _— alim his iuﬂs, .a-_w-1,!il§.ﬁ,t.s;ptoudly travelling; v . the :feather in his cap, the title-king~ 5 . “66 calls, and with; resist-mil ul‘stpingr . five years hee fund}; ngtreigniizmm feii peqralﬂs " by power and sword,~ all _] uﬂ't'nenelfe rejed’ting'y in his own ci‘aitgod {till was himdefeating, - hee would and wqllldrqt; to bee ltv’d-by cheating, calls three mocinnit-laments1 breaks up the thing. j v; oihis own making, caufethee would hee king; .7 . -' a pack of knaves were fome, fome could not give noll: ﬁt to rule, butno juii title having; up our grand laws, whiles clznrlshis son did litfe,j_ } makes himuniuﬂ, and niedeliimlalwsies craving", :~ l ofall religions that made for his fupp'orting,» made all opinions ﬁirrup bis-ufunping; . . a c oach- box favour god him once was giving, _‘ on micbgelmm _d;1y,to<change_ his wicked living; _ ; , state secretary in the coach doth lit, , proteéior in the'ﬂogch box, where’s his wit 5’ sometimes fuch frollicks mad into his brain were whymﬁed by his (pint, or hisltrttin; but this one adi was like their a‘étions all, one‘draws another, now null .gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that neléhad none, noll had fomevirtues, mercy hee lackt alone; 7 ' one of'his three mockgparlaments was ﬁtting ._ when as their head 21: the horfe- heels was ﬂitting._ some early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library elna 'rtfmpant sm. ""523 . isorne part oith’ armyinol abroad doth fend, ffor gold. to hi/panioh, keeps to mend _ ' , the remworms lmbm out,and orherstrembling ' (obeyget mofi dohate his bafe diii'embling. his majorgenerais, semi-d: ' ans-ﬂirt the lands 'nol: baihaws then ei'etv’d the ﬁring. 'for moneys false the {few he in would bring, canfc theyfore’him-had-murder'd chtiﬁ theirking-. he then‘pleads-for the 5thhe scripture'text :for their'converlion,though with-his own he’s vext.‘ :he doth divines call upgfromrfeverall‘places, to colour that deﬁgn, his chaplains faces are not to braz’d as his, he turns the few, ' hegets-the gold,andthen iorfake’s that-crew. still mony lacks,i'or that his conﬁdence bends his power and £word5and valor thereto‘tends, =it mutt be had,.if that the godsdeny, - _ the charm hee’l-force, and devils try, _ mites churches itables,a sacrile ious thing, this was the reformation no! di bring. brave man,whete doth t'hy fpirit fadiy ru mble a how inthis warld did thy afpitin s tumb'le ' _ things upiide downtvalour wit counfel lwayd is good,grand no! makes all the world afraid. how many teem to blefs when asrhey curfe' i: not cares nogfo that hee have power and purfe. how did his parlaments and himfelf agree ? how did his feveral {peeches made to three concur t‘ and with his recognition more, _ ‘ptayes, and proteﬂs, and megs, makes up the (core. . . e