(824-) ”wprimoewéfo non deﬁcit alter drama, é‘ﬂmﬂi frondefcir oirge meteliea the whole complex of ingredients is known to conﬁf’t only of vulgar {farm ferret ( abliratied from two parts of vitriol, and one of salt-peter) and (elckufilverﬁnd a {mall qumtity of silver, far lefs than you may reap it: afmall time from thofe silverufprigs; yet gain there is none, there being more expenses blown away into fmoak by continuance of ﬁre in one month, than can be recover’d from this silver-harvelt in a longer time. and though this feem but a toy, yet ’tis very philofophicalmuch informing the under, handing, however it enrich not the purfe. for here we fee crude meme :7 manifel’cly turn’d into silver, notwithl’tainding ’tis deny’d by {0 met- ny. so ferthir gem-ram oéﬁzrver for this times with the left part of whofe relations may be compared nw5. 39; p. 779, 780. ‘i‘is hep‘d , that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the sublet}, he hath here begun to difcoerfe of, and others of a philofoohieal nature, will be further comunicated by him. an arcozmt 0f ﬁtme particularity, referriﬁg to rhofe of jamaica, norah. 27. and 36, commem’mtcd by mr. norwood the jeenger, an eye- wirﬁefr. t. aliegrztorr are fhip'd like lizzards, being four footed they walk with their belly at dil‘tance from the ground, like lizze‘trds. thole of a full growth, have teethlike a malliﬁ', anda mouth of 1;. foot wide, they are of (‘0 ﬁrong a fcent,that you my fmell them at a pretty dilianceg when they lie on the land. they may be mvtlier’d and kill’d by any,dex~ trous and skill d in the way of doing it, which is, that a man he arm’d with a good long troncltion,and fall upon them ﬁde-wayess for doing it ﬁ‘ont~ wtiyes, they are too nimble for the afi‘eilaot, and may,by leaping upon him, (which theycan do the lergth of their whole body) fpoil him: but if he lay his club on them againll their (boulder, and behind. their fore-feet, and gag; them there, the beall being thereby rendred umble to move, is eaﬁly u ued. 2. time”, it their blood be heated, they dye, and if they {hill live , their blood muli not be better , than the element , they live in, 3. the chrgo’s, defcribed by ligon, are not felt to have got ion the: bodygtili a week after, they will breed in great numberg and (but tghem, elves.