,<,_ , ofimh’a in guardian. c it a r... l the lndiaa german. 1 pragife of prefcribed pa- ticnce. m 'l'he like ﬁuhbornneil'e is yet in their 3'5"“- n elia. var. ht’thﬂpﬁ. b arr.calleth him dude/u. 00.7, the hold the world to be treated, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. i: tett ey imagine to haue beene the beginning of making the world; and (in, b“ the foure elements, there it aﬁfth nature, whereof the heaven and 8mm, ‘ the] intreateof the immortalitie of the soule, and of rhetorrnenta in hell,“ h fuch like matters. the 3 gm», anotherorder of religious or learned men, are honored w them: ef eially fueh of them as line in the woods, and of the woods, m5,“ diet of t ofe wilde fruits. andtlteir habit of the barleaof trees,not lcquaintedgi beet-ina or ‘um any more then with 5' cm. they fpealte not to the kingsml... arlte counfell oftltem,but by meﬂ'engets; and doe paciﬁc the angr‘ie gods,» is h. fed,by their holineffe. next in honor to thefe, are certaine meridian", which litre of rice and 3*, which any man at theﬁrll aslting ﬁiueth them, together with entertainment intoth' lioufes. thefe profeil'e skill in pigi ekeand to remedie difeaﬁs,woundt,and ‘ very conﬁant in labour and hard ip. others there are, lnehanteta and diuinenmg. (lets of ceremonies about the dead ; which wander thorow townea and citie.. 5... there are more ciuill and feeular, in their life profellieg lilte pietie and holinelfe. we. men alfo are admitted turn the fellowfhi of their [ladies in thit philofophie, a. . their beds. ariﬂahlu wriieih, that he aw two of thefe tut-inuit”, the oneanu man fhatten, the other yongwith long haire,which fometimes referred to the hub place, and werehoooted aicounfellors, and freely tooke what they pleafed, of-y thing there to be (old, for their fulienance. th were annointed with stfamine wherewith, and with bony, they tempered their read. they were admitted to tender: table, where the gate leffbns of patience l : and afterfoin g to a plate nut. 03', the old man lying time with his face vaatd, fuflaine the sunne and“)... terrible violence. theybnger ﬂanding on one foot, held in both his hands a feud \voodof three cubits lifted vp, and fhifted feete, at the other was weatie: and continued every day. 'l'he'y'ang man returned home afterward, but the old man 3 lowed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when taken by forne reproued. he anfwered that he had fulﬁlled the fortie yeares eaercife, whit he had vowed. outﬁt-mu faith,that alexander. hearing of fome religious obferu, which wentnaked,snd eaettifed themfelues to much hardlhip,and would - not rat to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to count them; fent him vnto them,who found ﬁfteene of them twentie ﬁttlongs fromthtci- tie, each of them obferuing his owne gerure of ﬁtting, fianding, er lyingnaked oi no; flirting till sun-faring, in that rnfuppottable heate, at vi hich time they m into the citie. calamari wasone of them. he afterward followed alexander into in ﬁa, where beginningto be ﬁclte, he eaufed a great pile or frame of wood to health. wherein he placed himfelfe in a golden chaire.and caufed ﬁre to he put to,inv.hithit war voluntarily eonfumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexandra babylon, the place fatal! to alexander: death. alum n faith. that this ward!!! in a fuburb of babylon. and that the ﬁre was of cedar,cyprt fie, m title laurellpd other fweet woods :and after he had performed his daily eaercife of running. herb- ced himfelfe in the middel‘l, crowned with the leaues of reedet. the sn one {liming cl him. which he worfhipped. this‘adotation was the ﬁgne which he gaue to the ﬁt cedonians to kindle the ﬁre, in which he abode without any flitting till he was“: “lander himfelfe admiring, and prefertin this viclory of calamu before alli owne. this cohan: told outfit-mu of a golden world, where meale war as [lad- full as dufl,and fountaines {ireamed milke, hony, wine and oyle.which courtney.” men turned into wanton’neffeanarer altered and detained,impoﬁn a life ofhardnt‘l and labour, which while men followed, they enioyed abundance ; or now that or! begin to furfer and grow difobedient, there is danger of vniuetfall defltuéhoanll he had thus fpolten,he bade him,if he would heare ﬂirther, grip hittifelle. and lye”- ked vpon thefe floues. but manda-k. 0 another of them, reproued calannrorliﬂ harlltnes, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, faid that they in" their bodies to labour for the conﬁrmation of their minds againll pallions. partridge