v—ma—nw. ._.. early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc 184 the ﬁlﬁﬁﬁgﬂr, reﬁne conﬁiehae. i ,_—____.________________,_,_______ €313.13. some were hanged, fame beaded, fome weré ..._.......-— harried, fume drowned, fome dwamd of wild: heafis, fome pull’d in first: by men more 131'- ragc then beails,yet t my did all bear it, and rejoyced they fulfered for cashew, and far gad. anglia and alexander. were: twice ed hifl- bayted withzwilde beaiis,to be mm in pieces 1-5-6411; 1. by them,(as eufebzu: reports) attalu: elm? ping the bealls, was referred to other tor: ments, to be burnt to death in an iron timing1 _ heated red-ﬁreéh‘ot , yet did hee bear all. fowl-m- macedonia: , theodulm, and. brian: laid ,-'3".7‘l1’“3.' upon a grenﬁpron, and broiled to death; ye; aid-they beat. it; maren: aretbuﬁur w315 ﬁripped nak'ed,.then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter,and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot feorching sun, to be eaten up withﬂier, and [lung to death with maﬁayet did he fuller all rather then give one half-peny to re-ediﬁe that idol temple in his diocelé,which he had former: 1y plucked down.’ to be eaten up with ﬂirt, and ﬂung with 2194}: he did account fart; theodor"! more delirable, that he might preferve his {ibigjapcg- confeiencc in par-iris and peace, then to bee ' ‘ eaten up of borrow, and ﬂung 315:5 hawaii to preierve his life, he had delivered up his confeicnce. there were many chrillians together iiopt up in laker. or cave: miﬁd- " abj; made clofe, which lakes , or ditches. were ﬁlled'with a companie ofdormiﬁe, kept hungrie "to gnaw and feed upon the poor» phi-iiiians,they all the while bound hang ' ' ' an . images reproduced by courtesy of british library .1!” ﬁféring, or, riﬂes cazﬁiemfy i 8 5 ﬁrm and foot, that they could not keep offthoﬁ: cap. i 3 hunger-flawed creatures, which were kept w withouti meat 'alfo purpofely , that they 4-“.9-37, [night fallen 11 on the bodits of thofegodl ex theodo- men 5' which mgring and. miferable death "’0' they under-went,yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the hiﬂo-f flan. they chofe much rather to lie in fueh alalze artiﬁcially ﬁopt,and to be eaten up alive with thomeermin, their confcience ' being prefcrved, then to yeeld up this fan of confcicnce for fear of any earth! tormentsﬁo be eaten up while alive with guilyt and horrour ofconfcience. and when dead; to be bumdbmd andfaat, and call into an in- ftrnal lalo: of ﬁre and hrimlione,eternally iioptup, there to be converlhnt with ﬁlthy fpirits, and to be eaten up with thofe hellifh ' ﬁllies. ‘ i 1 ' ' yea, to make an end, for it is hnpollible to mention all, anamz'm faith not onely the men among the cbriﬂians, and thofc of hunger years and hearts , but even our m womtnﬁnd little children (faith he) have 6,333; endured all to‘rments, and been too hard carport} 12i- lor their tormentorsg, no ragck, no ﬁre could n‘ tjufmdi fetch fo much as a groan from them : which ’mmﬁa‘ the flouteﬂ: theeves and malefaﬁors anion ' "h pm?" their perfecutors could not ﬁnder-go , in 1:21:53; they would roarc and cric out through im- (9- gtminld' - patience, and difabilitie‘to endure them. 951;!) . - 0 r1 lﬂl‘ tam (lid! with team) pact/i, d; melierrulc torture: ﬁt!!! miti m'a- * ﬁlm, (3' exp-9mm it‘ll: geranium necfgnir pqiefl. magma}; :3 - _ m: _