f‘wt-‘h—l‘ i-' ’r early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc 5' g, ', '(153‘ xiii; mdiciae, page four shillings the bottle.» . vi. palpiseiiﬁaﬁriticm n oﬂer : or, bur general. febrif'zge. it. , n admirable pouder againlt fevers of all forts : a few dofes thereof (with the ufe of the other medicines) takes of? the fever be- ’ 0nd expet’cation. 2. it is fornething- sudo'rg'ﬁ'ele, but for the molt par-t works downwards ﬁrﬂ,and af-‘ tetward's'prow/ees sweat; it is a prevalent remedy againﬁ putrid fevers, mealles, small-pox, .ca- tlenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous difea- fe‘s.“ : 3. it is good againlt the green-ﬁe/mefi, drop— ' ﬁe, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its proﬁta- ble-in heﬁitk pervert. 4. it reﬁlls. putrifae’tion, fortiﬁes'the stomach,c0rre&s crudities,puriﬁes-the blood, cleanfes the bowels of ﬁlth and vifcous hu- mours, by a gentle purging way. ' -‘ ’ "the dofe and manner of ”vying it. 1. lit the patient drizzle plentifully of our ag. ' '. 'ivitie mag. according to the direé‘tion‘s iii-itsplace : give a dofe of'pouder in the morning, and at ., evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you fee ‘occafion, more or lefs; you may give it in .lbrm of 34801115 in a' little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of .‘- pruens,]elly of harts-horn ; or it may be exhibited " :in a g’lafs ’ot‘canary,o’r a fpoonful of syr. ofsafl'ron, l f i i .1 fl ;« or clove-gillyﬂov'vers. images reproduced by courtesy of british library we“ ".‘"‘\“p'w~ ' l . vii: - agent . nw“? ' —-___..___._..a_...~_.___. vii. aqua r1154 mineral»; .- is an excellentilli’d{cine of a prefervative nature i (f ofgreat beneﬁt in the plague, and other con: tablous diﬁempers; particularly againli the burn- ing thirﬂ' in fevers : good aoainl‘c co a nefs of breath, rtyﬁcl, the dileafes of 1%hlfdglghtd moat/2; as angimas, strumas, inﬂammations of the. pallate, or uvula of the [mold/1 thrufh in ' children, qumfies, and fuch like inﬂammations‘ as alfo for an unfavory breath. ' ’ 7‘ if: 'u/é and do e. ‘ or thrulhes or fore mouth: iii/j‘kctim children ' or any foulnefs of the tongue, or? throat 2" g, or a, drops dropped into a little white-wine ’0; plantain-water, fweetned with a little honey of rofes, and f0 drink it, and walh their moat/jar with the fame ; for people of-riper years they mult gargle their mattias with it; it being corhpoled to a gargarifm with white-wine, or plantain-water and dulcn’ied with syrup ol‘m/déerrz'e: or hone ’ ofrofes ; often {mi/reg from 6 drops to :10 or so ih beer,wlnte-wine, or plantain-water. ,for the burning thirll in fawn, give from 6 drops to 0 or 50, or half a spoonful in (0 much beer or al: that it may tall iharpifh of the medicine ifthe fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5' or 6 hours f pace ; but in continual fever: it may be given as often as the party deﬁres to drink obfer- mug in. fuch cafes to take often to procure sx’veat of my elm. magnum cordiala, and at night to tide . b ‘ ‘3. a