tail in this plot of groundj there was (in that yeere) more than 50000. perfons buried , as i have read in the charters of edward the third. alfo 1 have feene and read an in. fittiptionﬁxed on a lione crofl'c,fome- time handing in the fame church-yard and having thefe words: anno domini , 1349. keynote magma peﬂilmria, ronfémimm fm‘t [m cremat- . riemﬁn gm: ('7' infra fqata prafmm mo- nrtﬁrrii, ﬁpulmﬁrerunt ‘martutrrmr mr— pora,plufguam quingrmgmtzi mzﬂia , priz- ter alia mulra aihim ufqm rid prafmr, ”it”. in conﬁderation of the number of chriﬁian people here buried, the faid sithlrermamycaul‘ed ﬁrlt a chap- pell to be builded,where (for-the {pace of twentythreeyeares) oﬂerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above tooooo. bodies of chriltian people had in that church-yard beene buried, for the {aid knight had purchafed that place for the buriall of poore people, travailers , and other that were dil‘ea. fed, toremainefor ever ; whereupon, an order was taken , for the avoyding of contentionbcrweene the patrons of churches and that houle , to wit,that the bodies fhould bee had unto the church where they wereparil‘hionersj ordyed , and after the funerall iervrce done , had to the place where they {hould be buried. - and the yeerc 1371.hccaufedihere to bee founded an houl‘e of carrliujimi monkes , which he willed to be called the salutation , and that one 'of the monkes lhould be called prior, and he gave them the fayd place at 13. acres and 3 rod of land, with the chappel, and houles therebuilded for their ha- bitation. healfo gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals on the north part , betwixt the lands of the abbot of wejlminﬂcr, and the lands of the prior at saint john; which 5 three acres being plirehafed, ineloled, and dedicated by ralph stratford , bi- l'hop of london, as isaforefhewed , re- mainedtill our time, by the namcof pardonchurrh-yard,& fetved ior bury- ing of fuch as defperately ended their lives , or were executed for felonies, ball of a pope cle- "mm . charter- w12. charsbyard prepared ofthe poorc of poore. {crotc- maine for ever; vie for the fryery catt. . early english books online, copyright © quorum animabw propitietuxdm, an suéurbr without the wall. who were fetched thither tifually ih a elofe cart , bayled over and covered with black: , having a plaitie white croll‘e thwartin , and-at the fore-end a s. [ohm ctoﬂge withoutgand within a bell ringing by {halting of the cart)- wherby the lame might beliea'rd when it polled, 8: this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to sjoim‘r, and had the priviledge of sanéiuaryp in this charter-harms were the monu- ments of the l‘aid sir walter mamman‘d margaret his wife, mama/ida}: limit], laura/cc bram/ly, knight, sir edward thcrftr , knight, sir william manny, knigli r,dame iohzm boroegbgohn dore, wan: wiper,l{niglit, robert obie}, ef- qtlirc,knt/mri71£‘, daughter sir william bab/323ml, knight, bland), daughter to h ugh waterran, katharine, wile to [aim at pour, daughter and heire to rirhard lam, william randi); , sir john len- r/mim: , and dame margarerhis wife, daiighterto “horny, john peak: el; quireswilliam baron, and wiﬂiam baron, efquires, sir thom; tlami'mknight, philip m0rgm,biﬂ10p of el}, 14.34. in the cloyllrie , bartholomew eerie, knighr,maior of london, buried 1505.. sir 101m popbnm, é'r. this monaﬁery,at the fuppreﬂion in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 64.2.11 4.1]. halfe penny ycerely. here now i findﬁt time,tocomrnerid to all l‘ucceeding pofterity,the duely de- ferved praifes or that truely worthy (8t never to be forgotten) gentleman, ma- licr thomas sutton, the right rhwrix of charity in our times. this late dill‘ola ved charter-batlfe, by welt smirliﬁel , belongingthen tothc right honorable thoma: earle of suﬂblﬁe , after lord treafurer of england , is fulﬁciently knowne to been very large and goodly manﬁon,beauriﬁed with fpacious gar- dens , \nalkes , orchards and other plealiires, enriched with divers depen- dencies of lands and tenements ther- to belonging , and very aptly feared lorwholeiome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodiouf- nechof lituatiomandlargenell‘eof cit- i, cuit,gave occaii'on to this well-minded gentleman mallet sutton,to affect that lioule j as the onely place, whereon to build 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library the war} ‘ tliic to mébraiite 004. the: putative. it barf; _ tiucly lcl downe 51 thimsit was deli- mi. suéurér without the (volt. w . # buildthe foundation of his religious cinter—houﬁ, which he had formerly purpol‘e. for,among other his chri- intended at halliirglimy: whereto the {trait determinations, hee had former _ king readily yeeldeilpeing graciouﬂy ly intended to build an hairlest hel artedted to lo charitable a \norke and liigbmy bomber: in eﬂix, to be an hoﬂ ; granted his letters parents to the lame pitallior ﬁich poore men and children ; effeét. and the right reverend father ashehimfelfe (in his life time, or in. lin god,geerge , arehbilhop of (tamar. turegovernorsfor thelametobee de~ marie, 77706,“ lord eliefmere, lord puted) [houldthinke ﬁtto bee lodged chancellor of englmd - robert lord and relieved therezalfo, for a schoolm . high treai‘urer or englaizd. john the e- m,“ maﬁerand vihet, to teaehchildreu . let-”t billion ol'limdan; laimlar billie wi toreadeand write, and infttuél; them of el], 3 sir edward coke; kni ht, ontﬁ intthe latin: and greeke grammar: chiele lul‘tice of the commonpleas~ [it with a learned divine likewile to sir thor/m; foﬂer, knight. oneof his preach the vvotd of god to them all, majeliies lattices of the common and a maitet belide , to governe all 1 pleas 5 sir henry erhard, knight and tholi: people belonging tothat houl‘e. baronet, attourneygeri‘erall 5 him 0- am" to this bleﬂ'ed end and purpole, hee‘ trend! 2 deane or paul! in london ; [mm had procured (byearneﬁ ﬁiit) power george mountainepeane ofwgﬂmirﬂeri iii? yan aé‘t of parliament, to buildlueh henry lerabf , eiquire , one of the an hofpitall in the towne of halli/in — my bout/ms, and that the fame {horrid be named, the flo/pita]! of king jamar, founded in hallingéerj in the coun~ tie of ejfrx , at the humble petition , and at the onely coils and changes of yhomas szmim, el‘quire: appointing alfofuch honourable, reverend and worthy perfons, as by the faida& of parliament were nominated and ap~ pointed,ro bee the {iii} and irritant go— vernors of the lands, polteltions , goods and reveneues of the faid hof- pitall. {but afterward, upon more gratin ded deliberation , and ﬁnding this goodly forme following. houleof the ebarrer-baufe, to bee much allhi's maiinorsand lordlhips of moreconvenientfor the purpole, than soxthmirzﬂenlt’anw, little hallingﬁmy, that tobe builded at halﬁngéuycould alias halliagbwy bomber}, and’uméi- be: lice becamean earnelt l'uitertothe stanbridgegn the county of e ex. earle of sifﬂbli’e, to purchal‘e that all thofe his manners and lord- houfe of him , acquainting his honor (hips ofb'ajiirz‘gt-harpeﬁlias,b;(/iiiigriwpe with~ the alteration of his ininde con. and'dmmub] in the county or iii:- cerning hailinglmr ,and his carneﬂ de. mine. ﬁre to maltethec mer-iiouﬁ his hell all thole his mannots and llord- pitall. the earle being honourably {hips ofsair/iorp , aliass salrrap , alias, enclined to fo godly a morion,the mat- hahrop , chitin and elarkgrm , in the tet fuiiained the lelﬁdebaringbetween county of w11“. and 3110 all r‘hnl‘e his them: but the-price being concluded landsat paﬂiire.gtoiinds,ealled bird-- on, the bargaine and {ale wasaii‘urcd. grow, contayning- b‘y ellima‘iion 200. the fumme disburfed for this purpofe, acres of paliure , with the appurte- amounted to i 3000,1'.which was paid names in bltirlgrrtie and mtg/m , in downeinhand, before the cnl‘éaling oi ’ihe laidcountyoin/‘iirr. anti alfo in the conveyance. . that his mannor‘ofﬁlmﬁnmi.othert‘a‘iil'c then he became (‘uiter againe to his called the marmot ot‘. mimi/1dr» , mallets ofihe chemo-is; ng‘ky ivi bv tmgnle, elquire; riciurdti'utrm, ﬁll the holpitail ofking immfoundtd in the cbarrtriieufr, within the county of middleﬁx,at the humble petition, and the onely coils and charges of thomas surrra,efquire , were eleﬂed, nothi- nated and ordained by the kings molt excellent majeftie in his letters pa- tenrsgranted ,io bee the hilt gover— nors ol the landspochﬂionleevenues and goods of the fore-laid hofpitall, and continual! maintenance thereof in , cover. l not: ap- . pointed . patents, of in jam: his founded in lhe’ [imm- mp. quire 5 job» low gentleman ; thom: i browne, gentleman; and the matter of thclmd; made over by matter mumfor- l : main- tenance ofrhei'aid hofpitall {or ever, in the county of £17m in rhe county of late/11:. 1n the county at iriln. lands 6t failure, grounds inll‘ii/i. in thc counties ode/n. bridgg, £1 majeﬁie, to performe all that at the in the parithes of wrought“. ljdiﬁ‘dt ‘. an' m‘_ ltx and militia/t i hofpitall, ‘ by letters k' g p 3 a l