.i'this’ authotity, in the 'wdiﬁhf elliote; me; times, [when the mattch forte and 'potvetwas upon them. evetttuek clofeﬁ to' ‘theviutrefi ol'thé peeple, nor did the peeple intht: wadi oftimes, ever forfeit: them. but maintained ' their power tindjpriviledg'o, their eil'cnce, and authority; wheitfoevet' they called upon' them ion-helpc and am. ﬁance, nor hath this jail-and powerfull att- thotity beenmore true to the comments that chofe. them, then to-lthochwoithy ords‘and patticts. thetlttatany’time have? emitted them forthc common good of the. nationtptcﬁetving tﬁeit honours with}: true aﬂ‘cétiou as.thc' liberties of thc' peoplti' no man can name the time thittﬁntentional ly)‘this authority eve: did injuty to any? juit‘inttei’t either at home or abroad, but haveibotne and {ueeted muclh, fronithcfc that hate made 'amllufc oftheit leni'ty and ‘ credttlity. “ _ all which is neceﬂ‘ary to be remembtetl; and fettouﬂy conﬁdeted'in this inﬂamed t1m¢,b€c3uf¢ll’tlicfc thirtgsbe’fertouﬂy laid to‘ heart, it may ‘happily cchlthofc poy': {onotzs vapors.‘ with which our 2er begins ‘ to bemtcéted. me have agenerat'xon offer- getfull earl'y englisit bs oi‘wipht © 2019 proquest images reproduced by courtesy of british library {hall not fail: who told it isjiot'thc glory of s . ‘ -(7'-)-2-‘ ' etiuli, i tatefuil - people, who becaufe‘ithe garlamengt eanmt yeeld. onto all they dcﬁte (without extreame thtaldom to. the people. in things eccle’ﬁaftieall and cm“) ate dege- nerateinma' maietolent'dtfpoﬁttou, mur- muring and 't‘epittmg-at all then" procec- - dings, and : making hard econih'ttgions of their uﬂ cn’devouts; 'andby poltttque and; fu‘btil memes, ltbout' toaiitnte the hearts of ‘ ‘ their ltlcndrfton‘l themsand to tncline them- togiveeatc td‘o'thet: counfels, laymg open their inﬁrinin‘tes.‘ (which they ~{hould 'tathe't- go backward-to covet) and%would (. if they- cculdlpoﬂ’eﬂc the world that the re is a fort. i ‘o‘f-men th‘at’lwo'itld (ettlc rebgion more purely; perform: and mtetptet the cave mm more exaétly, and doe-iuﬂtcc more - fpeedily, and more ﬁnccately thcnthisiuﬂ' . authority; whom the peoble thcmfelves ' have chofeng‘my, there are- famcs abroad; . that there atescatalogues taken of any thing that may pofﬁbly bear a bad or ﬁmﬂct con— , ﬂtuaion. to be ibewed to the people. in the day of their extremity. tf [min a day can be procured. audio: tli'hat end all this 2 why, you ”)2", _