“0.7.1. 34. . 651:er tbe'ﬂ‘eﬂgddh wm: maw bﬁﬁmd‘uhnm ' {on followeth, not forini bug for ill-- noun g noe forfallheod utfo'rt'r'ueh ' he :eﬁi 'dtlm the wake: thereofwete sigh 5.39. what is theeeufe that me mm: and munded’ﬁnmity is oflh (me! account; ‘ ‘beeaufe the world of the vnregene.‘ me lieth in wiehedne'e,eud faith eoca'ra null ifeaione briu’ ell: little contente- ’ meat? howem l: echaeoppreﬂ‘qurs; extol-timers , vl‘uie‘u ,- eheﬁ: idolaeroue worldliugt, caged!“ with thoul'ands of delicioui prodigal: , mould emettaine the gofpell : (inc: zmﬁm mun diuide hie‘go'ods. mathew mull-bid farewellw his place of cuﬂomuy receipt 3 yet the people of god nuﬂ'vl'e this world as if the life of they vl'ed it uoxihow hard‘tlie‘refore will faithmydif- it be for ﬁlth a null in vncerte-lne :ié ﬁenluo ea.‘ i pm. dies, to rublea themfelnes ea thisllfe of faith? may-‘notrgodsmihiﬂei-s «keep a lameneariaa, what hepp‘y tidings ram ehe wordoffaith which we preach? how is the way to eu’erlaﬂing bliﬂ'e plainly beaten fourth, yet how fun delight to 7 walled inuie e' how {luggil'h are our com- mon profeﬁ‘ourmheeemm watchone ‘ - - home? early nglish books online, copyright © 2019 proquesl: llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library .mmmeﬁfepgm ~ . 3; hwehnd how-faithleﬂ'e areihoﬁbacka ﬂidity bypocﬁuga‘s ifehe‘véclﬂilgeabfe ‘ poﬂ‘e oorof ﬂeece!) and eu‘ﬂrmrc mi- faithﬁlll , ounable. to" recouped“ ind i fully reward-hisfaithﬁiﬂ people-5‘ : ' , thus-we fee; elm heigheinheway, andeﬁmll :ie'lh'e number an: g’b-it; i: that» is: an vmuly heifer than“! not be earned; euer haue-gudéﬁrines: lime ' likelh'e making ofan oliuetafm the via: tage. wicked men are mad men 5 s' . they willed: be ordered; they‘ve beaﬁinién, they will not hearse,- charme the charé liner ueuer foxwifely ;' if chm be (1'qu which is ndc-dodeoffaith , how worull will it be with the greneﬁ numbergwho neither-know norbeleeue, .being‘bllndd . . . '2 mid diﬂ‘oiutc :' hauiug from their «usage 0” “m“ neitheir ul‘d'ag'e wandred from the mic! m" m "'1 therewombes hf all aai'ons that wage mifetablegfoc oegod, being [en en fold more the-ch“; a: cfull dreddfhell then eheywe're in :heimaaall ' faith he ﬁns; bow man‘y‘a'teehe- hero! theft.- who were aeuer'enligbteﬂed with ehefka'awledge ofgo‘d p my we huh driue'n'me idto‘fuela a‘uerrowiﬂﬁi lit-,6} ibp‘afc’d me in; that‘reaaneegee '17; either to licence-the meuie'r «said: 5 .- . " thenians, 1 g