245 160 # directions for the sugar plums. <table> <tr> <td rowspan="2">sugar<br>purging</td> <td rowspan="2">plums</td> <td>worms often keep in such<br>ill health, that no<br>body can tell what they all<br>(little dreaming it to be from<br>worms) till they see these<br>worms to come away alive.<br>in the clofe stool, by the fa-<br>mous purging sugar plums,<br>which are innocent, and<br>safe, as a little manna, or rhubarb, or,<br>2. or 3. stewed prunes, with sena.<br>an<br>is<br>there are no worms at all, there<br>is<br>another such a thing this day in the<br>world again, for a most delicate fine purge, where<br>a fine safe purge may be wanted—to free the body<br>foul humours, and thereby cure its distempers.<br>as is daily experienced in families.—so that, a.<br>few penny worths. only of these plums<br>will fave a deal of charges in phyfick and.<br>preserve more lives, then half the phyfick in<br>town, & recover.</td> </tr> <tr> <td>common, suggar plums at the confectioners;<br>are indeed bigger than these, but for colour,<br>taste &c. these may be eaten by children,<br>like a common sugar plum. or. like any sweet meat<br>you can give the child to please it.—or, you may<br>bruise and dissolve them. like a bit of loaf<br>sugar, in a little tea, milk, beer, gruel, &c.<br>and so take them, which is a very good way.<br>signs of worms, are—a big belly, which,<br>these rare little sugar plums, presently,<br>take down, and the children are soon quite well<br>pale looks, hollow eyes, stinking breath, itching<br>of the nose, which makes children often rubbing<br>it, unequal sleep, with startings, and grying out. in<br>loofenels, coughing, gripes & pining away. pain<br>and sickness at stomach, inclining to vo nit. a great<br>appetite, and craving for victuals frequently crying<br>reflets and uneasy, & no body can tell with or<br>what they all or would have, or what to give<br>them for ease.</td> </tr> </table> whenever than a child is out of order, let it<br>immediately, and out of hand, eat one<br>only of these plums. and if but eaten 3 time<br>will save a deal of charges in phyfick, & recover<br>more children from illness than loads of other<br>phyfick. country shop keeprs through out the whole<br>kingdom, fell a deal of these gum opening<br>remedies and plums which proves so very quick a<br>return that they still send to templebar for<br>more & more of them. and what is not sold, are<br>returned at any time. and any order shall be immediately delivered<br>to any carrier, stage coach, waterman, or<br>correspondents, you shall please to order, to any<br>part of the kingdom these sugar plums presently<br>cure an agues, and intermitting fever, the head<br>ach, cholick, gripes rhumatism thickness of<br>hearing, sickness and pain at stomach droply green<br>sickness, want of appetite, coughs, and short<br>breath, giving immediate ease and easy breath. one only of these little plums (of a penny) is<br>enough to bring these worms with foul & gross<br>humours away from a child of 2 or 3 years old —<br>and half a plum for younger children; two plums given to a child of 4, 5, or 6. years<br>old, to bring worms away, three plums, to one<br>of 8, 9, or 10. years old, for a fine safe purge. and<br>man or woman, may take 4, 5, or 6 of them when they<br>want to be finely purged, and to have foul humours<br>out of their body. and after every working, by which<br>you’ll see a load of foul humours, as green as<br>grafs, drink a deal of warm broth, water gruel, ale<br>or tea, the more you drink the better they will work<br>if not given stools enough add a plum next time<br>the only harm of a plum more for a dose would only<br>be a stool or two the more. missing a day or two between each, these<br>plums should be taken 3 times because once only<br>takeing does not purge out of the body all the<br>worms, and foul humours, and may be taken<br>any weather heat or frost. public record office<br>ycheques<br>progress remembrances