26 **preservatives against the plague.** perificial parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, as before is taught you, and fo apply to the place fome strong maturative, and attractive plaster, or cataplaime, as hereafter shall be shewed you. if the greif be in the head or throte, then apply ventofes to the neck: if it be in the emunctuaries of the heart, then apply them to the buttocks or ven-tioles, now when this is done, either by phlebetomy, or ven-tioles, then within an hour or two at the most after it, you must give the fick fome good cordiall medicine, which hath power to comfort the heart, refift the venomous matter, and alfo procure sweat, whereof out of the following you may make choice as you lift. *an excellent good powder to expell the plague, which alfo pro-voketh sweat.* b. roots of gentian, bittanie, petafitis, ana, 3.i. roots of tormentill, dittander, ana, 3 iii. red sanders 3. β. fine pearle of both forts, ana, 3.i. rindes of citrons, red corrall, roots of zediar, shaving of ebony, bone of a stags heart, ana, fix-teen graines: fragments of the five pretious stones, ana, 3. β. shaving of a unicorns horn, succini, ana, 3. β. leaves of gold and silver, ana, one and half in number. make all these in fine powder, every one feveral by himself, and then mix them all together, and give thereof 3.i. or 3. iii. more or leffe as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabios, or cardius benedictus water two or three ounces, whereunto you must adde a little sirrup of lemons, or four citrons, and give it warm, the bolarmoniack must be pounded small, then washed in scabios water, and fo dried. *another good powder.* b. leaves of dittander, called diellami cretici, roots of tormentil, bittanie, pimpernell, gentian, zediar, ana, 3. i. terra iemnia, alloes ciacrina, finemyrrh, rinds of four citrons, ana, 27 **preservatives against the plague.** ana 3 i. maffick, saffron, ana, halfa drachm. bolarmoniack prepared as beforefraid, 3 ii. all these must be made in fine powder, and fo mixt together, you may give two cruples, or one drachm thereof with any of the aforefraid waters. *a good opiat to expell veneme, and provoke sweat.* conserve of the floures of furrage, buglofs, violets, bit-tanie, ana, 3. ii. venus triacle 3. ii. red terra figillata, terra iemnia, mithridate, ana 3. i. shaving of ebonie, and harts-horn, orient pearls, roots of tormentill, ana 3 i. shaving of unicorns horn, root of angelica, ana halfa drachm. sirrup of the juice of small sorrell and buglofs, ana, fo much as shall suffice. mix all these together in the form of an opiat, then take of the same opiat, one drachm and half. scabios water, balm water, ana 3 ii. diffolve the opiat in the waters, and drink it warm, then walk a little upon it, and then goe to bed and sweat. *another excellent good means to expell the venom, and procure sweat.* take a great white onyon, and pick out the coar or mid-dle of him, then fill the hole with good venus triacle, or andromachus triacle, and aqua vica, then stop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and roft him in the hot athes un-till he be foft, then frein it frongly through a cloth, and give it the fick to drinke, and the rest that remains, pound it small, and apply it to the fore, and sweat upon it. now when he hath taken any of the aforefraid cordials, if he chance to vomit it up again, then wash his mouth with rosfwater and vinegar, and then give him more of the same again, which must be proportioned according to the quantite vomited, for if all were vomited, then give fo much more: (if leffe) then according to the quantity vomited, and if he vomit that alfo, then give him more, and fo continue it h h h to early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of library of congress