# the gentlewomans yelks of two eggs 1-2 one shels oz drought, and so more oz less according to the quantity of your lie : beat them very well, and take away the skin of the yelks, and when the lie boils put them in, and keep them boiling continually : and when it hath with a while, sweeten it with sugar ; and if it be to eat, cut two or three tails of white to bread, take them dry, and put them to the candle, but if it be to drink put in none ## to stew beef. take a good rump of beef cut from the bones, mixed turnips and carrets small, with spinage and lettice, put all in a pan and let it stew four hours with so much water, and a quart of white-wine as will cover it, some pepper and salt : when it is stewed then put in a wine-glass full of good elder vinegar, and serve it with sip-pits. ## to boyl a gammon of bacon. water your gammon of bacon twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep kettle with sweet hay, let it boyl softly for 2 or seven hours, and then take it up with a scummer and a plate, and take off the skin whole, then kick your gam- # cabinnet unlocked. gammon full of cloves, and grew on some grose pepper, then cut your skin like sippits to garnish your gammon : and when you serve it, kick it with bay-leaves. ## to boyl brawn. water your brawn twenty-four hours, wash and scrape it four or five times, then take it out of the water and lay it on a clean table, and throw an handful of salt on every cello, then bind them up as fast as you can with hemp or bals, and put them in your kettle, when the water boilseth, and the scum arteth, take it away : let it boyl so tender that you may then draw through it, then let it cool till the next morning, and so on. ## to make a white-pot. take the boil and sweet cream, and boyl it with good cloze of sugar and cinnamon, a little rose-water : then take it from the fire and put into it clean pickt rice, but not so much as to make it thick, and let it keep therein till it be cold : then put in the pelks of six eggs and two whites, currants, putmeg and salt : then put it into the pan or pot, as thin as if it were a cuffard, and early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library