(52) to those granted to the english east-india company at first, they would have found there was no reason to charge his majesty with granting as such immense or unparalleled privileges, or attributing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noife of the guns at namur, as this penitulant scribber does. *dedication, pag.* but if $h$ — and his subsonbers complain against our privileges as immense, they are refold’d to diminish the authority by which they were granted, and call it only by the name of an obey, which signifies no more than a patent; whereas our privileges were granted us by an act of parliament, which are greater and more fancered than all the obeys in europe: thus thro infraction or malice they think fit to vilify his majesty’s conduct and authority, which they pretend to defend. their malice is further demonstrated by the parenthesis (to be preformed) in the 2d page of the decation, where they speak of his majesty’s promise to interpose his royal authority to do us right in case of diffundance, and that at the publick charge (to be preformed) of his ancient kingdom. there might possibly have been some need of their presumption, had all mankind been endowed with as little sense and honesty as $h$ — and his subsonbers; for no other body could ever preform it to mean any thing else, since our acts do not oblige england: to the it they demand that our enemies would take care thence said promise should not be kept, the refusal of funding our company the 3 men of war built at the charge of our own nation, would soon have convinced the world that they had preformed to true. we have accounted for rejecting mr. douglas’s proposal elsewhere; nor shall we take notice of $h$ —’s kurious reflections of mr. paterson, which (53) which only discover his own temper, but do that hence! man no hurt. as to his charging us with squandering away $50000.00$ in 6 hulks at amsterdam and hamburg, purely to promote one of our proceedings, we would desire him and his subsonbers, to reconcile it with what they say from what $p.14$ to 20, where they own themselves that the dutch and hamburgers were both mightily pleased with the delign, p. 14. that the dutch were tickled with the concise that they should be savers in the scots trade; and p.16. they say, that which gave the dead broke to the scots delign, was the east and west-india companies running open mouthly to the lords of amsterdam, firming what was hatching by the scots commissioners in their city to tame the trade of the united provinces. p. 17. they tell us, that the hamburgers thought it the more their interest to embrace the project, the more that the dutch oppor’d it: p. 18. that our affair was generally favoured by the burgers of hamburg; and p. 21. that the government of england sent the senate of hamburg a caution in sir paul ricaut to take care how they suffered their burgers to embark with us. so that here we condemn them from their own mouths: it being plain from those concessions, that we did not idly squander away our money at hamburg and amsterdam; but that both those trading cities approv’d our delign, and would have engaged in it, had not the court of england and the dutch opposed it; and therefore what lofs of money we opposed in those places, must be charged to their account; so that $h$ — hath verified the proverb, that liars have need of good memories. this is not the only instance wherein those of $h$ — and his subsonbers have giv’n them the flip; for in the 4th page of the dedication, they e 3 upgraded early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by google library, union theological publications company, inc.