2 buy that the has been for the many years past can never be questioned or denied. for the people of new england, and other parts of the continent have fagged the french sugar-colonies with provisions, and necessities of all kinds for their plantations, and have taken from them sugars, and great quantities of rum, which the french were made before (as interfering with french brandy) till they found a vent for it by the trade. and they take off likewise great quantities of the french maltos, which was added to them before, for the fame reason, that the distilling it would hinder the consumption of brandy. and forth french rum and maltos is often bought by them with money received in our sugar-colonies, from their cargoes fold there. the mischief from this commerce are very many and evident, and will encrease more and more every year, if some effectual step be not put to it. by this means the french have erected their plantations, and made new settlements, and chiefly fippy hamburg’s, holland, spain, the levon, and the netherlands, with sugars, which were formerly foot thicker by us. the british sugar-colonies can’t find the market for their sugars abroad, which they did formerly, but chiefly depend upon our own consumption. many of the inhabitants and planters are to reduced, that they are returning to the northern colonies, which, in code of a war with france, in all probability, will occasion the entire loss of the sugar blends, there being in maritime some speakeats of now thousand well-disciplin’d men. the british sugar-marks are so abundantly increased of their present maltos by the traders from the northern colonies, who carry it away to purchase sugar, rum, and maltos, from the french plantations. tues by the invercours, they have an opportunity of taking off great quantities of foreign european manufactures, and india goods, in a likewise manner, from the french and dutch. and what is worthy of great consideration, is, that tho’ the northern colonies may be gainers upon the whole by this trade; yet the french sugar-colonies receive much more advantage thereby than the northern colonies, rum and maltos being close profits to the french’s and the cartile and limber they receive, absolutely necessity for them, and which they could not have from any other place. nor do the northern colonies take from hence to great britain manufacturers than they formerly did, nor being a profits incredible damage great britain must suffer from the mischief the sugar-colonies receive by it; the ruin of which must immediately affect great britain in its highest degree. bastress the great benefit the french colonies receive from this trade, which of stills since must from destroy the british sugar-colonies, there are other causes which will contribute to make our sugar-colonies decline, and enable the french to fippy foreign markets with sugar. the french sugar-colonies receive the greatest encouragement from their mother-country, and their duties are left than ours. wheeas 3 whereas the british sugar-colonies pay in the plantations a day of four and a half per cent. for their sugars before they can ship them to great britain, which is never drawn back on exportations, no more than the excise on rum, which distills them from fippying ireland with it; and if their sugars are carried in the northern colonies they must pay the plantation day of eighteen pence per cent. for their maltos, sugars, and five shillings per cent. for their white sugar over and above the four and a half per cent. duty. upon the whole: if this trade to the foreign sugar colonies be not speedily and effectually preserved, the british sugar-colonies will be in danger of being ruined. the confluence of which to great britain will be, that the mult able the export of all the british manufacturers now taken off by the sugar-colonies, and the whole benefit arising from the imporation of their product. our navigation and seamen must necessarily fall off and diminish. the african trade, as chiefly depending on the sugar-colonies, must decay. and our sugar works, and other plantation stocks and unsell, will be of no use, and thereby to much wealth will be actually sunk and left to this nation. early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library