treason, and more barbarous and cruell then the massacre of france, being destroyers of their own liberties, and supplanters and overthrowers of the same religion that they themselves pretend to professe. the agreement betwixt the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about eleven of the clock on the tuesday night, a house neere unto froome gate was to be blown up; which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onset; who against that hour were to draw downe unto the city, and prince robert with his army came so nigh as the gallows: a bell at st. johns church on a hill above the gates was to roule, another bell at st. michaels church upon the hill above the green was to ring, to give notice to the malignants of this towne to rise in an instant, sufficient parties were made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without opposition; for that purpose there were in readiness in the house of master george butcher of christmasse street, a new made captaine for this design, about 160 armed men, and in the house of master robert teomans (who was one of the sheriffes of this city the last yeere, foure and twenty men ready to put themselves in armes which there they had, the one to supprise the maine guard, the other, the guard at froome-gate, and to let in these blood sucking chavaliers; two other bells were to roule at the same time to give notice to the malignants to rise in all parts of the city. both monday and tuesday, white peeces of incle were given to divers, and to the better sort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their bosoms and hats for distinction, and all that had not the word charles, or those marks, were to be put to the sword, murthered and destroyed, besides divers houses in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were designed to utter ruine and destruction. the businesse is not, as as yet fully examined, but this and much more is confessed by the principle and maine plotters of this wicked designe't i want time to give you a perfect relation, you shall speedily have a fuller and better account, as foone as we have a little recovered our selves out of these distractions; for the present, here is enough to stirre you up to join with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodnesse and mercy to us, and to give god his glory and prayse for this wunderfull and gracious deliverance, that hath preserved so many thousands of us that were innocent, and sold, and almost given up into the hands of these cruell and blood-thirsty men. the cheife actors of this mischievous designe were the aforesaid robert teomans, and george butcher, mr. john taylor, mr. colestone, and his brother, mr. fitzherbert, two colsons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple, and captain cole of st. augustine, who with at least one hundred more actors and accessories, are already taken and imptifoned in the castle, and hourly more are discovered and secured, many of them upon examination have confessed the plot to be in manner as before is described; and that threescore families of men, women, and children were to be put to the sword, without quarter, given in upon a note. twogoods house was searched and there in were found many papers that did discover the whole plot, and between three and four thousand pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, besides divers instruments to murther and destroy with cruelty, such as wee never saw before. a poetscript. prince rupert and that army marched away as foone as their plot was discovered. a 3 the early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library