130 **of canzonets.** booke ii. away i wait with teares by night in vain, teares, fighes by night, by day encrease thi paine. mine eyes no eyes, but fountains of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moyl my heart : my heart no heart, but labour of my teares, my teares no teares, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my teares, my heart, my teares, mine cies are blinle, dride, pride, palf, watted with my cries. and yet mine cies, though blind, fee’caufe of grief, and yet my teares, though dride, tunne downe amaine and yet my heart, though fient, attends relieve. and yet my teares, though palf, encrease my paine. and yet i liue, and liuing feele more smart, and smarting, cry in vain, breake heavy heart. --- **xxxii. canzonet.** *defires government.* **w** here wit is one-sold by will, and will is led by fond defire, ti ere re fison were as good be fill, as speaking, kinlle greater fire, for where defile doth beare the sway, the heart must rule, the head obay. what boot: the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to shape their course; :when --- booke ii. **of canzonets.** when he that flees will have his will, and drive them where he fill pe force. so reason fhowes the truth in vain, where fond delire as king doth raigne. --- **xxxiii. canzonet.** *lones properties.* **t** wist heat and cold, t’wist death and life, t’freeze and burne, i liee and die: which joyntely worke in me fisch trifle, i liee in death, in cold i by. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. fist burning heste fets all on fire, whereby i feme in flames tofy : then cold defipire kilis hot defire, that drenched deeps, in death i lye. heste driuet out cold, and keeps my life, cold quencheth heste, so end of trifle the leffe i hope to have my will, the more i feele delire encrease, and as defire encreafeth fill, defipire to quench it doth not ceafe. so liue i as the lamps, wholc light oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. k 2 living --- early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntington library