368 wits common part.2. as the echiope cannot change his skin, nor the leopard alter his wife; & as it is not possible to gather grapes of thomas, or figges of thistles : so it is to no purpose to force anything to strive against nature. as in tilling of the ground and buf-handie, a cunning chof then a good foile, then a cunning fower, then a good feed : even we must compare thistles to the fat earth, the expert husbandman to the schoolemafter, the faculties and sciences to the purefeels. as the fertile foile if it be never tilled doth was barren : so that which is not noble by nature, is made most vile by negligence. as the torch turned downward is extinguished with the selfeless wase, which was the cause of his light : so nature turned to vkinkindie is quenched by thole meanes it should bee kindled, leaving no branch of loue, where is found no root of humanitie. $n_{\text{wits}}$ part.2. wealth. 169 $n_{\text{wets}}$ as cookes with for a plentiful bread of eatress, and fifties of fifties : to bufie-brained innouarters doe hunt after newes, and innovation in fates.plut. as we will vp meste from eatres and dogges : so we must take heed, what we speak before newes mongers, and informing intelligences.idem. as our bodies are moreindangered by the spring, & in autumn; by reason of change : to all noucitle doth offend and hurtlie common-wealth. as change of meate, drinks and aire doth offend, albent : be into like, or into better : so it is better fill to re-tain old princes and magistrates, then to gape for new, because all in-nessuait is full of danger and distur-ance. as a agien called homer from the dead, forsome other cause, buxto know from what pa-entage he was defended: to many take great paines, and below much cost, onely to heare newes, and know noveties, $plut. 39, cap. 2$ . $r. 5. rc.$ early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of university of illinois library