192 a choice manual, or, the dofe is one or two spoonfuls morning and evening. the virtue of aqua maria. it is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obstructions thereof, it comforth the vital parts, and is good against all passions of the heart; it prefereth the meat in the stomach from putrefaction; it helpeth digestion, and expelleth wind. the dofe is one spoonful at one time. the virtues of flowers of rosemary. it is good against all infirmities of the stomach, and to suppreff all offensive fumes rising up from thence to the head, keeping them down, and helpeth memory; it openeth all floppings of the liver and milt, it preventeth vergiss, scotorism, palfies, apoplexies, dileasves of that kind arifing from cold humours, it breaketh wind, and eafeth the cholick. the dofe is 1 spoonful at 1 time. the rare secrets in phyfick. 193 the virtues of spirit of mint. it is good for the stomach, and strengtheneth the retentive faculty, good against vomiting, and all passions of the heart, it comforth the vital spirits, and is good against the contumption, it expelleth wind, and helpeth digestion, and is an infallible help for all melancholy. the dofe is from one to two spoonfuls. the virtues of aqua theriocalis. it is good against all dileasves of the spleen whatsoever; it preventeth and helpeth contagions, and fidden oppressions and qualms of the heart. the dofe is one spoonful to prevent, and 3 to the infected, who ought to twet after taking it. the virtues of spirits of saffron. it is good to comfort the vital spirits, passions, trembling, and penifences of the heart, and helpeth all malignity o, preffing it, early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images produced by courtesy of university of glasgow library