36 is clear that laying on of hands was visibly done, outwardly apparent, simon saw it, surely then prater was vocal and apparent, they both did pray; and not as fome would have it, one did pray vocallie, and the other mentallie. but fome may quarie further, did they lay on hands both at a time, viz. peter and john? truly the text is not clear in that particular, on-fie the text: faith thus much, they laid on their hands on the samaritans, they, in the plurall number. i shall say no more as to thele circumstances, i hope those which are judicious will not fland upon fuch niceties as these are, but rather will mind subfanitals, and so i shall defire the reader to make his progresse unto the next particular, and leave this unto confi-deration. --- **chap. iiiii,** *is concerning the ends wherefore laying on ofands it is to be adminifired upon bapti-zed believers.* i am not ignorant that the whole weight of the controverfie lies in the clearing up of this point, and why? because there hath been a great deal of difference amongst the people of [37] of god, and that as to the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers, and also the ends wherefore they were laid up-on baptized believers in former times, the contention about this point hath been fo much the stronger, because fo some contrarie ends which have been proposed by some in opposition un-to those right ends which i shall here lay down. and because we may observe a right order and method for the profit of all, i shall therefore first lay down those ends which i judge to be of most strength and life for the maintenance of what is formerly laid down; and then i shall come in the next place to overthrow those supposed ends which are brought in by others. in the first place i shall affirm, that one end wherefore perfons are to have hands laid on them, is, that so they may be put into a further capacity of going on to perfection. i would not here be mistaken, i do not say others who have not subjected unto this principle are no waies in a capacity of going on to perfection; but this is that i do affirm, namely, that those baptized believers who have subjected unto this truth, are put into a further way of capacity of going on to perfection; and therefore this is one end wherefore it is to be d 3 sub- early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of christ church library, university of oxford