24 # the rumpant story. a single person, something like a king, nolls craft, and crew, and power, to pass did bring, protector, or projector rather, levelling all to his lusts, a while fits proudly revelling the feather in his cap, the title king hee calls, and yet the power still usurping, five years hee rul’d, not reign’d, himself protecting by power and sword, all just men else rejecting, in his own craft god still was him defeating, hee would and would not, so hee liv’d by cheating. calls three mock-parlaments, breaks up the thing of his own m.king, cause hee would bee king; a pack of knaves were some, some could not give up our grand laws, whiles charls his son did live. nolls fit to rule, but no just title having, makes him unjust, and made him always craving of all religions that made for his supporting, made all opinions stirrup his usurping; a coach-box favour god him once was giving, on michaelmas day, to change his wicked living. state secretary in the coach doth fit, protector in the coach-box, where’s his wit? sometimes such frolicks mad into his brain were whymsied by his spirit, or his train; but this one act was like their actions all, one draws another, now noll gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that noll had none, noll had some virtues, mercy hee lackt alone, one of his three mock-parlaments was sitting when as their head at the horse-heels was flitting. some --- 25 # the rumpant story. some part o’th’ army nol abroad doth send, for gold, to hispaniola, keeps to mend the rest, worms lambert out, and others trembling obey, yet most do hate his base dissembling. his major generals, semi-dragons sting the land, nols bashaws then deferv’d the string. for moneys sake the fews he in would bring, cause they fore him had murder’d christ their king. he then pleads for the fews the scripture text for their conversion, though with his own he’s vext.’ he doth divines call up from severall places, to colour that design, his chaplains faces are not so braz’d as his, he turns the few, he gets the gold, and then forsakes that crew. still mony lacks, for that his conscience bends his power and sword, and valor thereto tends, it must be had, if that the gods deny, the acheron hee’l force, and devils try, makes churches stables, a sacrilegious thing, this was the reformation nol did bring. brave man, where doth thy spirit sadly rumble? how in this world did thy aspirings tumble things upside down? valour with counsel fwayd is good, grand nol makes all the world afraid. how many seem to bless when as they curse? nol cares not, so that hee have power and purse. how did his parlaments and himself agree? how did his several speeches made to three concur? and with his recognition more, prayes, and protests, and swears, makes up the score. e he --- early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library