they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. water they imagine to have been the beginning of making the world; and that besides the four elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heauen and starres confit. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. § the indian germanes. the k germanes, another order of religious or learned men, are honored among them: especially such of them as live in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of those wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with bacchus or venus any more then with ceres. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by messengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is supposed, by their holinfee. next in honor to these, are certaine mendicant, which live of rice and burly, which any man at the first asking giueth them, together with entertainment into their houses. these professe skill in phyficke, and to remedie diseafes, wounds, and fenilays very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanters and diuiners, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more ciuill and secular, in their life professing like pietie and holinfee. women also are admitted vnto the fellowship of their studies in this philosophie, not to their beds. aristobulus writeth, that he saw two of thefe brachmanes, the one and old man shauen, the other yong with long haire, which sometimes reforted to the markes-place, and were honored as counsellors, and freely tooke what they pleafed, of any thing there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were annointed with scamintey, wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to alexander's table, where they gauë leffons of patience 1; and after going to a place notie off, the old man lying downe with his face upward, sustained the sunne and showes terrible violence. the yong standing on one foot, held in both his hands a piece of wood of three cubits lifted vp, and shifted feete, as the other was wearie: and so they continued every day. the yong man returned home afterward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by some reproved, he answered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercise, which he had vowed. oneferitus faith, that alexander, hearing of some religious obferum, which went naked, and exercised themselves to much hardship, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to come to them; sent him vnto them, who found fifteene of them twentie furlongs from the city, each of them obseruing his owne gesture of sitting, standing, or lying naked, and not flirring till sun-setting, in that unsupportable heate, at which time they returned into the city. calanus was one of them. he afterward followed alexander into pisa, where beginning to be fickle, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himselfe in a golden chaire, and caused fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexander in babylon, the place satall to alexander's death. althausn's faith, that this was done in a suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cyprife, mirtle, laurell, and other sweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercise of running, he placed himselfe in the middest, crowned with the leaves of reedes, the sunne shining on him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the figne which he gave to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any flirring till he was dead; alexander himselfe admiring, and preferring this victory of calanus before all his owne. this calanus told oneferitus of a golden world, where meale was as plentiful as dust, and fountains streamed milke, hony, wine and oyle. which country, by men turned into wantonneffe, jupiter altered and detained, imposing a life of hardnock and labour, which while men followed, they enjoyed abundance; but now that men begin to surfer and grow disobedient, there is danger of vniuersfall destruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, strip himselfe, and lyed upon these stones. but mandanis, another of them, reproved calanus for his harshlines, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, said that they inured their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds against passions. for his mckednes 1 practife of prescribed patience. m the like stubbornneffe is yet in their fugitives. n ellen. par. b.hb.5.cop.6. 6 arr. calleth him dandans. lib.7.