184 the suffering, or, passive conscience. cap.13. some were banged, some beaded, some were burned, some drowned, some denounced of wild beasts, fome meat all pieces by men more faveage then beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoiced they fuffered for conscience, and for god. attalus and alexander were twice bayted with wild beasts to be torn in pieces by them, (as esophius reports) attalus ecaping the beasts, was referred to other torments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all. sacra-hihi. macdeminus & thondhur, and tatianus laid upon a gredgros, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcus esophius was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot forching sun, to be eaten up with flies, and flung to death with mafte, yet did he fuffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in the docefs, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with flies, and flung with mafte he did account farre more detirable, that he might preferre his conscience in purinie and peace, then to be eaten up of horrores, and flung with horntes, if to preverle his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together floup in laker, or cavae artifidically made clofe up, which lakes, or ditches were filled with a companie of dormife, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and the suffering, or, passive conscience. 185 and foot, that they could not keep off thofe hunger-farved creatures, which were kept without meat all purposely, that they might fallen upon the bodies of thofe godly death- men; which fingring and miferable death- they now-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the hitorian. they chose not to lie in fuch a lake artificially fstop, and to be eaten up alive with thofe vermin, their conficence being preferred, then to yeuld up this fert of conscience for fear of any tortments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and horrore of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and call into an infernal lake of fire and brimfong, eternally floup up, there to be converant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with thofe hellish furies. yes, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lalamius faith not only the men among the chriffians, and thofe of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (faith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard corpori vi- for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could i ejimudi feth so much as from them : which lacera-tiones preferre majones, their perfectors could not undergo, but they would roare and crie out through im- eclamant, and disabilitie to endure them. ( at de viris saccem) puri, & multivirale vireres fusti capit simon, & eprimare illis gemimun nec sappi lael 1.r.cap.13. but early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy © 2019 proquest llc