136. nature's explanation. enforbium must do what cochipils will not: opium must do what letice potter will not; but first it must be mixed up into a ridiculous laudanum; colocytidae & scammony must effect what manna, sene & rhubarb will not: o brave doctors! o capita hellebore digna! yet you are the chryssmum out against paysons. as though scammony, colocytidae, blaterium, efula, euphorbium, valopium, bryony, alarum, aeron, hellebore, and such like, as cambogia, etc., were not absolute paysons. o but they are tempered by the art of the skilful doctor. good words cost no money. i wish it prove so. but i pray my doctor if it be so, what means the bleating of the sheep? i mean, what is the reason your medicaments retain their vomiting quality with convulsions of the rotmack which have hellebore mixed; and their purging quality with gripings and and helmont's vindication. and such symptoms that have scammony-mixed; thus you use to correct paysons, thus you intend to cure diseases. *minervum craftisfum*! but as a jugler when his feats are discovered, to you by this means become ridiculous: you know the ferocious check the frog in *lefep* received, who as you do, would pretend to be a doctor, *cur tibi ipf labra livida non turas*? coughs, colds, murres, hoarfenesses, head-aches, tooth-aches, and the like; nay oft-times the simple itch and scab; doth reproach you at home, and outdare you abroad, and what is your excuse? they are trivial cafes. by which it appears, that if other difeafes should become as common as these, they would all be too mean for the doctors reverence, and good reason, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountebanks with 137 early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library