478 # suburbs without the wals. in this plot of ground, there was (in that yeere) more than 50000. persons buried, as i have read in the charters of edward the third. alfo i have feene and read an inscription fixed on a stone croffe, sometime standing in the same church-yard and having these words: *anno domini, 1349. regnante magna pestilentia, confectionum fuit hoc cemiterium, in que & infra septa pretensis monasterii, sepulta fuerunt mortuorum corpora, plufquam quinquaginta millia, praet alia mulxa abhinc usque ad pretens, quorum animabus propitettur. deus, amen.* in consideration of the number of christian people here buried, the said sir walter manny caused firt a chappell to be builded, where (for the space of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above 100000. bodies of christian people had in that church-yard beene buried, for the said knight had purchased that place for the burial of poore people, travellers, and other that were diseased, to remaine for ever; whereupon, an order was taken, for the avoying of contention between the parfons of churches and that house, to wit, that the bodies should be had unto the church where they were parishioners, or dyed, and after the funeral service done, had to the place where they should be buried. and the yeere 1371. he caused there to bee founded an house of carthusian monkes, which he willed to be called the salutation, and that one of the monkes should be called prior, and he gave them the fayd place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chappell, and houses there builded for their habitation. he alfo gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of weffminster, and the lands of the prior of saint john; which three acres being purchased, incloed, and dedicated by ralph stratford, bishop of london, as is aforeshewed, remained till our time, by the name of pardon church-yard, & served for burying of such as desperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, who were fetched thither usually in a clofe cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white croffe thwarting, and at the fore-end a s. johns croffe without, and within a bell ringing by shaking of the cart, whereby the lame might be heard when it passed, & this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to s. johns, and had the privilege of sanctuary. in this charter-house werethe monuments of the said sir walter manny, and margaret his wife, marmaduke lumley, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward hederfet, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame johan borough, john dore, want water, knight, robert olney, esquire, katharine, daughter sir william babington, knight, blanch, daughter to hugh waterton, katharine, wife to john at post, daughter and heire to richard lacie, william rawlin, sir john len-shaine, and dame margaret his wife, daughter to john fray, john peake esquire, william baron, and william baron, esquires, sir thomas thawites knight, philip morgan, bishop of ely, 1434. in the cloystrie, bartholomew rede, knight, major of london, buried 1505. sir john popham, &c. this monastery, at the suppression in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 642.1. 4.d. half penny yeerey. here now i find fit time, to commend to all succeeding posterity, the duely deserved praises of that truly worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, master thomas sutton, the right phoenix of charity in our times. this late diffolved charter-house, by west smithfield, belonging then to the right honorable thomas earle of suffolk, after lord treasurer of england, is sufficiently known to be a very large and goodly manfion, beautified with spacious gardens, walkes, orchards and other pleasures, enriched with divers dependencies of lands and tenements thereto belonging, and very aptly seated for wholecome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodioufne of situation, and largeneffe of circuit, gave occasion to this well-minded gentileman master sutton, to affect that house, as the onely place, whereon to build the wor-thie re-mbrance of m. tho-mass sutton. i have truely let downe all this, as it was delivered mee in writing by a gentleman of good worth and credit. --- 479 # suburbs without the wals. build the foundation of his religious purpose. for, among other his christian determinations, hee had formerly intended to build an house at hallingbury bouchers in essex, to be an hof-pitall for such poore men and children as he himselfe (in his life time, or future governors for the lame to bee deputed) should thinke fit to bee lodged and relieved there: alfo, for a schoole-master and vher, to teach children to reade and write, and instruct them in the latine and greeke grammar: with a learned divine likewise to preach the word of god to them all, and a mafer beside, to governe all those people belonging to that house. to this blessed end and purpose, hee had procured (by earneft fuit) power by an act of parliament, to build such an hofpital in the towne of hallingbury bouchers, and that the same should be named, the hofpital of king james, founded in hallingbury in the countie of essex, at the humble petition, and at the onely cofts and charges of thomas sutton, esquire: appointing also such honourable, reverend and worthy persons, as by the said act of parliament were nominated and appointed, to bee the firt and infant governors of the lands, poffessions, goods and revenues of the said hof-pitall. but afterward, upon more grounded deliberation, and finding this goodly house of the charter-house, to bee much more convenient for the purpose, than that to be builded at hallingbury could be: hee became an earnest fuitier to the earle of suffolk, to purchase that house of him, acquiring his honor with the alteration of his minde concerning hallingbury, and his earneft desire to make the charter-house his hof-pitall. the earle being honourably enclined to so godly a motion, the matter sustained the leffe debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargain and fale was affured. the summe disturbed for this purpose, amounted to 13000.1. which was paid downe in hand, before the enfealing of the conveyance. then he became fuitier againe to his majefstie, to performe all that at the charter-house, which he had formerly intended at hallingbury: whereto the king readily yeelded, being graciously affected to so charitable a worke, and granted his letters patents to the fame effect. and the right reverend father in god, george, archbishop of cantur-burie, thomas lord ellefmere, lord chancellor of england; robert lord high treasures of england; john the elect bishop of london; lancaster bishop of ely; sir edward coke, knight, chiefti iutice of the common pleas; sir thomas fofter, knight; one of his majefsties iutices of the common pleas; sir henry hubard, knight and baronet, attorney general; john o-verall, deane of pauls in london; george mountaine, deane of weffminster; henry thurbby, esquire, one of the masters of the chancerie; geoffrey nightingale, esquire; richard sutton, esquire; john law gentleman; thomas browne, gentleman; and the mafer of the hofpital of king james, founded in the charter-house, within the county of middlesex, at the humble petition, and the onely cofts and charges of thomas sutton, esquire, were elected, nominated and ordained by the kings most excellent majefstie in his letters patents granted, to bee the firt governors of the lands, poffessions, revenues and goods of the fore-faid hofpital, and continuall maintenance thereof in forme following. all his mannors and lordships of southminster, norton, little hallingbury, alias hallingbury bouchers, and much-stanbridge, in the county of essex. all those his mannors and lordships of eastingshore, alias, buffingshore and dannesby in the county of lincoln. all those his mannors and lordships of saltorp, alias, saltrop, alias, haltrop, chilton and blackgrove, in the county of wiles. and also all those his lands & pasture-grounds, called blackgrove, containing by estimation 200. acres of pasture, with the appurtenances in blackgrove and wroughton, in the said county of wiles. and also in that his mannor of missenden, otherwise called the mannor of missenden, in the parishes of wroughton, lydierde and the fiif gover-nors appointed by letters patents, of king james in this hofpital, founded in the charter-house. the lands made over by mafer sutton for the main-tenance of the faid hofpital for ever, in the county of essex. in the county of lincoln. in the county of wiles. in the county of wiles. lands & pasture grounds in wiles. in the counties of cambridge, essex and middlesex. --- early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library