70 directions for health. sture, and hastneth on old age and death. sperme or seede of generation is the onely comiorter of nature, which wilfully shed or loft, harmeth a man more, then if hee should bleed forty times as much. teach me how winelesse batchelers, and huf-bandleffe mardes, should drive away their uncleane dreaming of venery at nights. first, they must refrain from wine, and venorous imaginations, and not vse to lye in soft down beds. secondly, they must addic them feluesto read the bible and morall philo-sophy. thirdly, they must exercise often their bodies. lastly, if none of these prevaile, let them vse the seed of *agnus castus*, in english parke seed, and they shall seele a strange effect to follow. --- of bathes. chap. 5. what is the vse of bathes? cold and naturall bathes are greatly expedient for men subject to rheumes, drops and gouts. neither can i easily express in words how much good cold bathes doe bring --- of bathes. 71 vnto them that vse them: howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man distempered through venery, gluttony, watching, fasting, or through violent exercise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholsome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with hot lee made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to pour two or three gallons of cold fountain water vpon your head. then let your head be dried with cold towels. which sodaine pouring downe of cold water, although it doth mightily terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the memory is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much auale the eyesight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time when waters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall bathing is very expedient and wholsome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces of the iuyce of wormwood and wild mallowes, one f 4 ounce --- early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library