<table> <tr> <td> <p><strong>34</strong> gods word the safest guide.</p> <p><em>john 7.7.</em> cannot base them, but him it based: the reason followeth, not for injury, but for innocence, not for faithhood but for truth: he testified that the works thereof were evil.</p> <p><em>2 john 5.19.</em> what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so small account, but because the world of the unregenerate lieth in wickednes, and faith to carnall affections bringeth little contentment? how can it be that oppreffours, extortioners, vuters, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertain the gospell: since zacchew must divide his goods, mathew must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vse this world as if they vted it not? how hard therefore will it be for such as trust in uncertain riches, to subiect themselves to this life of faith? may not gods ministers take vp a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to everlasting bliss plainly beaten fourth, yet how few delight to walks in it? how sluggish are our common professours, that cannot watch one hour?</p> <p><em>2 cor. 7.31.</em> the life of faith very difficult to nature.</p> </td> <td> <p><em>gods word the safest guide.</em> <strong>35</strong> hour? and how faithlesse are those back-fliding hypocrites, as if the vachangeable poffefour of heaven and earth were vafaithfull, or vnable to recompence and fully reward his faithfull people?</p> <p>thus we see, that freight is the way, and small is the number that go it. ephraim is an unruly heifer that will not be tamed. ever have gods saints bene like the shaking of an olive after the vintage. wicked men are mad men, they will not be ordered; they are deaf men, they will not heare, charme the charmer never so wisely. if that be sinne which is not done of faith, how wofull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor believe, being blind and dissolute: having from their nonage to their old age wandered from the waies of god, being seven fold more the children of hell then they were in their mothers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were never enlightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driven me into such a narrow freight, & so paled me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the novelties of the athenians,</p> <p>old natural men are very miserable, for they are full of sinnes.</p> </td> </tr> </table> early english books online, copyright © 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library