texture, a shining snowy whiteness, and so transparent that common print may be read through the thickest part of a large loaf. this sort of sugar may be scented with different flowers, by strewing the flowers on the moist cloths, and renewing them as often as the cloths are changed, and twice a day besides: the water, filtering through the cloth, carries down with it those particles of the flowers in which their fragrance resides, and leaves them in the sugar. *labar* relates, that twelve hundred pounds of refined sugar yield only five hundred and forty-six of sugar royal. the french prepare, in imitation of the *royal*, a sort of sugar which they call *sucré tappe*. this is no other than the common clayed sugar rasped very fine before drying, and rammed into small moulds which have been previously moistened with water. this sort of sugar looks very beautiful: but as its particles have no natural union, they separate upon the least moisture, and run into melasses. ### 3. of sugar-candy. sugar-candy is made from the muscavado or clayed sugars, by dissolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification setting them to crystallize or shoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnished with a number of small sticks laid across for the sugar to shoot upon: their lower aperture is almost closed, so as to suffer the part which remains liquid to filter through very slowly. when the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it is carried with all possible expedition into an hot stove, immediately poured into the moulds, and the stove kept strongly heated. the sugar concretes upon the sticks into crystalline masses, of a white or brown colour, according as the sugar was pure or impure. --- ## a p p e n d i x. ### the art of fermenting and distilling melasses, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit. #### 1. of the fermentation of the cane juice in general. all kinds of sweet vegetable juices are capable of being converted, by means of slow fermentation, into vinous liquors, which may either be preserved in that form, or made to yield by distillation an inflammable spirit; by a hasty fermentation, or a slow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars. the native juice of the sugar cane, as it is eminently sweet, is likewise in a particular manner disposed to ferment; but without a great deal of address runs, beyond the process of vinous fermentation, into an acetous state. after it has undergone a degree of fire, it becomes less susceptible of these changes; and does not ferment readily without the assistance of such matters as promote this operation: such is the flower or head which arises upon liquors during fermentation, &c.