away i waft with teares by night in vaine, teares, fighes by night, by day encrease this paine. mine eyes no eyes, but fountains of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moyll my licart: my heart no heart, but labour of my feares, my feares no feares, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my feares, my heart, my teares, mine eies are blinde, dride, spent, past, wafted with my cries. and yet mine eies, though blind, see cause of grieve, and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine: and yet my heart, though spent, attends reliefe. and yet my feares, though past, encrease my paine. and yet i liue, and liuing feele more smart, and smarting, cry in vaine, breake heauy heart. xxxii. canzonet.*desires government.* **w**here wit is ouer-rul'd by will, and will is led by fond desire, there reason were as good be still, as speaking, kindle greater fire, for where desire doth beare the sway, the heart must rule, the head obey. what boot is the cunning pilots skill, to tell which way to shape their course: when when he that steers will haue his will, and driue them where he list pe force. so reason shewes the truth in vaine, where fond desire as king doth raigne. xxxiii. canzonet.*lones properties.* **t**wixt heat and cold, t'wixt death and life, i freeze and burne, i liue and die: which ioynedly worke in me such strife, i liue in death, in cold i fy. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, neither, and both, this life i lead. first burning heate sets all on fire, whereby i seeme in flames to fry: then cold despaire kils hot desire, that drenched deepe, in death i lye. heate driues out cold, and keepes my life, cold quencherth heate, to end of strife. the lesse i hope to haue my will, the more i feele desire encrease, and as desire encreseth still, despaire to quench it doth not cease. so liue i as the lampe, whose light oft comes, oft goes, now dim, now bright. k 2 *living*