as the æthiope cannot change his skin, nor the leopard alter his hew; & as it is not possible to gather grapes of thornes, or figges of thistles: so it is to no purpose to force any thing to strive against nature. as in tilling of the ground and husbandrie, there is first chosen a fertile soile, then a cunning sower, then good feed: even so we must compare nature to the fat earth, the expert husbandman to the schoolemaster, the faculties and sciences to the pure feeds. as the fertile soile if it be never tilled doth wax barren: so that which is most noble by nature, is made most vile by negligence. as the torch turned downward is extinguished with the selfsame waxe, which was the cause of his light: so nature turned to unkindnesse is quenched by those meanes it should bee kindled, leauing no branch of loue, where is found no roote of humanitie. *news.* *news.* as cookes wish for a plentifult abreed of cattell, and fishers of fishes: so busie-brained innovaters doe hunt after newes, and innovation in states. *plus.* as wee set vp meate from cats and dogges: so we must take heed, what we speake before newes mongers, and in- finuating intelligencers. *idem.* as our bodies are more indangered by the spring, & in autume, by reason of change: so all noueltie doth offend and hurt the common-wealth. as change of meate, drinke and aire doth offend, albeit it be into like, or into better: so it is better still to re- taine our old princes and magistrates, then to gape for new, because all innovation is full of danger and disturbance. as *agion* called *homer* from the dead, for some other cause, but to know from what parentage he was descended: so many take great paines, and bestow much cost, onely to heare newes, and know nouelties. *plin. lib. 30. cap. 2.* r 5. rc...