192 *a choice manual*, or, the dose is one or two spoonfuls morning and evening. *the virtue of aqua maria.* it is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obstructions thereof, it comforteth the vital parts, and is good against all passions of the heart; it preserveth the meat in the stomach from putrefaction; it helpeth digestion, and expelleth wind. the dose is one spoonful at one time. *the virtues of flowers of rosemary.* it is good against all infirmities of the stomach, and to suppress all offensive fumes rising up from thence to the head, keeping them down, and helpeth memory, it openeth all stoppings of the liver and milt, it preventeth *vertigo*, *scotomia*, *palfies*, *apoplexies*, diseases of that kind arising from cold humours, it breaketh wind, and easeth the cholick. the dose is 1 spoonful at 1 time. *the* *rare secrets in physick*. 193 *the virtues of spirit of mint.* it is good for the stomach, and strengtheneth the retentive faculty, good against vomiting, and all passions of the heart, it comforteth the vital spirits, and is good against the consumption, it expelleth wind, and helpeth digestion, and is an infallible help for all melancholy. the dose is from one to two spoonfuls. *the virtues of aqua theriacalis.* it is good against all diseases of the spleen whatsoever; it preventeth and helpeth contagions, and sudden oppressions and qualms of the heart. the dose is one spoonful to prevent, and 3 to the infected, who ought to sweat after taking it. *the virtues of spirits of saffron.* it is good to comfort the vital spirits, passions, trembling, and pensiveness of the heart, and helpeth all malignity of pressing it,