is clear that laying on of hands was visibly done, outwardly apparent, *simon* saw it, surely then praiere was vocal and apparent, they both did pray; and not as some would have it, one did pray vocalie, and the other mentalie. but some may quærie further, did they lay on hands both at a time, *viz. peter and john?* truly the text is not clear in that particular, onlie the text saith thus much, they laid on their hands on the *samaritans*, they, in the plural number. i shall say no more as to these circumstances, i hope those which are judicious will not stand upon such niceties as these are, but rather will mind substantials; and so i shall desire the reader to make his progreffe unto the next particular, and leave this unto consideration. #### chap. iiii, *is concerning the ends wherefore laying on of hands it isto be adminisired upon baptized believers.* i am not ignorant that the whole weight of the controversie lies in the clearing up of this point, and why? because there hath been a great deal of difference amongst the people of of god; and that as to the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers; and also the ends wherefore they were laid upon baptized believers in former times; the contention about this point hath been so much the stronger, because of some contrarie ends which have been proposed by some in opposition unto those right ends which i shall here lay down. and because we may observe a right order and method for the profit of all, i shall therefore first lay down those ends which i judge to be of most strength and life for the maintenance of what is formerly laid down; and then i shall come in the next place to overthrow those supposed ends which are brought in by others. in the first place i shall affirm, that one end wherefore persons are to have hands laid on them, is, that so they may be put into a further capacitie of going on to perfection. i would not here be mistaken, i do not say others who have not subjected unto this principle are no waiers in a capacitie of going on to perfection; but this is that i do affirm, namely, that those baptized believers who have subjected unto this truth, are put into a further way of capacitie of going on to perfection, and therefore this is one end wherefore it is to be d 3 sub-