a single person, something like a king, *noll*s craft, and crew, and power, to pafs did bring, protector, or projector rather, levelling all to his lusts, a while fits proudly revelling the feather in his cap, the title king hee calls, and yet the power still usurping, five yeares hee rul'd, not reign'd, himself protecting by power and sword, all just men else rejecting, in his own craft god still was him-defeating, hee would and would not, so hee liv'd by cheating. calls three mock-parlements, breaks up the thing of his own m. king, cause hee would bee king, a pack of knaves were some, some could not give up our grand laws, whiles *charles* his son did live. *noll*s fit to rule, but no just title having, makes him unjust, and made him alwaies craving of all religions that made for his supporting, made all opinions stirrup his usurping; a coach-box favour god him once was giving, on *michaelmas* day, to change his wicked living. state secretary in the coach doth sit, protector in the coach-box, where's his wit? sometimes such frolicks mad into his brain were whymfied by his spirit, or his train; but this one act was like their actions all, one draws another, now *noll* gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that *noll* had none, *noll* had some virtues, mercy hee lackt alone, one of his three mock-parlements was fitting, when as their head at the horse-heels was fitting. some some part o' th' army *nol* abroad doth send, for gold, to *hispaniola*, keeps to mend the rest, worms *lambert* out, and others trembling obey, yet most do hate his base dissembling. his major generals, semi-dragons sting the land; *nols* bathhaws then deserv'd the string. for moneys sake the *fews* he in would bring, cause they fore him had murder'd christ their king. he then pleads for the *fews* the scripture text for their conversion, though with his own he's vext. he doth divines call up from severall places, to colour that design, his chaplains faces are not so braz'd as his, he turns the *few*, he gets the gold, and then forfakes that crew. still mony lacks, for that his conscience bends his power and sword, and valor thereto tends, it must be had, if that the gods deny, the *acheron* hee'l force, and devils try, makes churches stables, a sacriligious thing. this was the reformation *nol* did bring. brave man, where doth thy spirit sadly rumble? how in this world did thy aspirations tumble things upside down: valour with counsel lwayd is good, grand *nol* makes all the world afraid. how many seem to bless when as they curse? *nol* cares not, so that hee have power and purse. how did his parlements and himself agree? how did his severall speeches made to three concur? and with his recognition more, prayes, and protests, and swears, makes up the score. e he