— primo avulso non deficit alter aureus, & simili frondescit virga metallo. the whole complex of ingredients is known to consist only of vulgar *aqua fortis* (abstracted from two parts of *vitriol*, and one of salt-peter) and quick-silver, and a small quantity of silver, far less than you may reap in a small time from those silver-sprigs; yet gain there is none, there being more expences blown away into smoak by continuance of fire in one month, than can be recover'd from this silver-harvest in a longer time. and though this seem but a toy, yet 'tis very philosophical, much informing the understanding, however it enrich not the purse. for here we see crude *mercury* manifestly turn'd into silver, notwithstanding 'tis deny'd by so many. so far this generous observer for this time; with the last part of whose relations may be compared *numb. 39. p. 779, 780.* 'tis hop'd, that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the subject, he hath here begun to discourse of, and others of a philosophical nature, will be further communicated by him. ### an account of some particulars, referring to those of jamaica, *numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the younger, an eye-witness.* 1. **a** *llegators* are shap'd like lizzards, being four footed they walk with their belly at distance from the ground, like lizzards. those of a full growth, have teeth like a mastiff, and a mouth of 1½ foot wide. they are of so strong a scent, that you may smell them at a pretty distance, when they lie on the land. they may be master'd and kill'd by any, dextrous and skill'd in the way of doing it, which is, that a man be arm'd with a good long tronchion, and fall upon them side-ways; for doing it front-ways, they are too nimble for the assailant, and may, by leaping upon him, (which they can do the length of their whole body) spoil him: but if he lay his club on them against their shoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and lime them there, the beast being thereby rendred unable to move, is easily subdued. 2. *tortoises*, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they shall live, their blood must not be hotter, than the element, they live in. 3. the *chico's*, described by *ligon*, are not felt to have got into the body, till a week after. they will breed in great numbers, and shut themselves