they hold the world to be created, corruptible, round, ruled by the high god. water they imagine to have been the beginning of making the world; and that besides the foure elements, there is a fifth nature, whereof the heauen and starres consist. they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, and many such like matters. k the indian germanes. the k *germanes*, another order of religious or learned men, are honored amongst them: especially such of them as liue in the woods, and of the woods, both for their diet of those wilde fruits, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted with *bacchus* or *venus* any more then with *ceres*. they speake not to the kings, when they aske counsell of them, but by messengers; and doe pacifie the angrie gods, as is supposed, by their holiness. next in honor to these, are certaine *mendicants*, which liue of rice and barley, which any man at the first asking giveth them, together with entertainment into their houses. these professe skill in physicke, and to remedie diseases, wounds, and sterility; very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanters and diuiners, masters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. some there are more ciuill and secular, in their life professing like pietie and holiness. women also are admitted vnto the fellowship of their studies in this philosophie, not to their beds. *aristobulus* writeth, that he saw two of these *brachmanes*, the one an old man shauen, the other yong with long haire, which sometimes resorted to the market-place, and were honored as counsellors, and freely tooke what they pleased, of any thing there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were annointed with sesamine oyle, wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admitted to *alexanders* table, where they gaue lessons of patience<sup>1</sup>: and after going to a place not far off, the old man lying downe with his face vpward, sustained the sunne and shoues terrible violence. the yonger standing on one foot, held in both his hands a peece of wood of three cubits lifted vp, and shifted seete, as the other was wearie: and so they continued every day. the yong man returned home afterward, but the old man followed the king, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as he was by some reproved, he answered that he had fulfilled the fortie yeares exercise, which he had vowed. *oneferitus* saith, that *alexander*, hearing of some religious obseruance, which went naked, and exercised themselves to much hardship, and would not come to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to come to them; sent him vnto them, who found fifteene of them twentie furlongs from the citie, each of them obseruing his owne gesture of sitting, standing, or lying naked, and not stirring till sun-setting, in that vnsupportable heate, at which time they returned into the citie. *calanus* was one of them. he afterward followed *alexander* into persia, where beginning to be sicke, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be made, wherein he placed himselfe in a golden chaire, and caused fire to be put to, in which he was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet *alexander* in babylon, the place fallall to *alexanders* death. *aelianus* saith, that this was done in a suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cyprisse, mirtle, laurell, and other sweet woods: and after he had performed his daily exercise of running, he placed himselfe in the middest, crowned with the leaues of reedes, the sunne shining on him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the signe which he gaue to the macedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any stirring till he was dead; *alexander* himselfe admiring, and preferring this victory of *calanus* before all his owne. this *calanus* told *oneferitus* of a golden world, where meale was as lenisfull as dust, and fountains streamed milke, hony, wine and oyle. which country, by men turned into wantonnesse, *insper* altered and detained, imposing a life of hardship and labour, which while men followed, they enioyed abundance; but now that men begin to surfet and grow disobedient, there is danger of vniuersall destruction. when he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, strip himselfe, and ly naked vpon these stones. but *mandanis*, another of them, reproved *calanus* for his harshnes, and, commending *alexander* for his loue to learning, said that they inured their bodies to labour for the confirmation of their minds against passions. for his nakednes 1 practise of prescribed patience. m the like stubbornnesse is yet in their joghies. n *aelian. var. lib. 5. cap. 6.* o *arr. calleth him dandanus. lib. 7.*