**cap. 13.** some were *banged*, some *breaded*, some were *burned*, some *drowned*, some *devoured* of wilde beasts, some *pull'd in pieces* by men more savage than beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoiced they suffered for *conscience*, and for *god*. *eccle. hist.* 1.5. cap. 1. *attalus* and *alexander* were twice bayted with wilde beasts, to be torn in pieces by them, (as *eusebius* reports) *attalus* escaping the beasts, was reserved to other torments, to be burnt to death in an *iron chair*, heated red-fire-hot, yet did he bear all. *socrat. hist.* 1.3. cap. 13. *maccedonius*, *theodulus*, and *tatianus* laid upon a *gredyron*, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. *marcus arestebusius* was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be eaten up with *fies*, and stung to death with *wasps*, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-penny to re-edifice that idol temple in his diocese, which he had formerly plucked down. to be eaten up with *fies*, and stung with *wasps* he did account farre *theodoret.* lib. 3. cap. 16. more desirable, that he might preserve his conscience in *puritie* and *peace*, then to be eaten up of *horrour*, and stung with *hornets*, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopt up in *lakes*, or *caves* artificially made close, which *lakes*, or *ditches*, were filled with a companie of *dormise*, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and and foot, that they could not keep off those **cap. 13.** hunger-starved creatures, which were kept *mag. cent.* without meat also purposely, that they *4. cap. 3.* might fasten upon the bodies of those godly *ex theodo-* men; which lingering and miserable death *reio.* they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, faith the *histo-*rian. they chose much rather to lie in such a *lake* artificially stopt, and to be eaten up alive with those *vermin*, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this *fore* of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten up while alive with guilt and *horrour* of conscience. and when *dead*, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an *infernal lake* of fire and brimstone, eternally stopt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be eaten up with those hellish furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, *lactantius* faith not onely the men among the christians, and those of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (faith he) have endured all torments, and been too hard for their *tormentors*; no rack, no fire could fetch so much as a groan from them: which the stoutest *theeves* and *malefactors* among their *persecutors* could not undergo, but they would roar and crie out through *im-* patience, and *disabilitie* to endure them. *larones,* *& robusti* *corporis vi-* *ri ejusmodi* *laceratio-* *nes persepe-* *nequenti,* *exclamant,* *& geminus* *edunt;* *nostris au-* *tem (ut de viris raceam) pueri, & muliercule tortores suos taciti vin-* *cunt, & expromere illis gemitum nec ignis potest.* *lact. 1.5. cap. 13.* but