this medicine. price four shillings the bottle. vi. *pulvis antifebricus noster:* or, our general febrifuge. 1. **a**n admirable poulder against fevers of all sorts: a few doses thereof (with the use of the other medicines) takes off the fever beyond expectation. 2. it is something *sudorific*, but for the most part works downwards first, and afterwards provokes sweat; it is a prevalent remedy against putrid fevers, measles, small-pox, calenture, spotted-fever, and other venomous diseases. 3. it is good against the *green-sickness*, dropsie, melancholly, scurvy, jaundice, and its profitable in *heetick fevers*. 4. it resists putrifaction, fortifies the stomach, corrects crudities, purifies the blood, cleanses the bowels of filth and viscous humours, by a gentle purging way. *the dose and manner of using it.* 1. **l**et the patient drink plentifully of our *aq. vita mag.* according to the directions in its place: give a dose of poulder in the morning, and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you see occasion, more or less; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little *marmalade* of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glass of canary, or a spoonful of syr. of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii. *aqua* vii. *aqua ruba mineralis.* **i**s an excellent medicine of a preservative nature, of great benefit in the plague, and other contagious distempers; particularly against the burning thirst in fevers: good against coughs, shortness of breath, *ptyssick*, the diseases of throat and mouth; as angimas, strumas, inflammations of the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thrush in children, quinsies, and such like inflammations; as also for an unfavourable breath. *it's use and dose.* **f**or thrushes or sore mouths in sucking children, or any foulness of the tongue, or throat, 2, 3, or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, sweetened with a little honey of roses, and so drink it, and wash their mouthes with the same; for people of riper years, they must gargle their mouths with it; it being composed to a gargarism with white-wine, or plantain-water, and dulcified with syrup of mulberries, or honey of roses; often taking from 6 drops to 40, or 50, in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirst in fevers, give from 6 drops to 40 or 50, or half a spoonful in so much beer, or ale, that it may tast sharpish of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times in 5 or 6 hours space; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party desires to drink, observing in such cases to take often to procure sweat, of my *elix. magnum cordialis*, and at night to take