*euphorbium* must do what *cochipils* will not: *opium* must do what *letice* posset will not; but first it must be mixed up into a ridiculous *laudanum*; *colocynthis* & *scammony* must effect what *manna*, *sene* & *rhubarb* will not: o brave doctors! *o capta helleboro digna!* yet you are the men that cry out against poysons. as though *scammony*, *colocynthis*, *platerium*, *efula*, *euphorbium*, *valapium*, *bryony*, *asarum*, *aaron*, *hellebore*, and such like, as *cambogia*, &c, were not absolute poysons: o but they are tempered by the art of the skilful doctor. good words cost no money, i wish it prove so. but i pray mr. doctor if it be so, what means the bleating of the sheep? i mean, what is the reason your medicaments retain their vomiting quality with convulsions of the stomach which have *hellebore* mixed; and their purging quality with gripings and and such symtomes that have *scammony* mixed: thus you use to correct poysons, thus you intend to cure diseases. *at intervam crassissimum!* but as a jugler when his feats are discovered, so you by this means become ridiculous; you know the serious check the frog in *esop* received; who as you do, would pretend to be a doctor, *cur tibi ipsi labra livida non turas?* coughs, colds, murres, hoarsenesses, head-aches, tooth-aches, and the like; nay oft-times the simple itch and scab, doth reproach you at home, and outdare you abroad, and what is your excuse? they are trivial cases. by which it appears, that if other diseases should become as common as these, they would all be too mean for the doctors reverence; and good reason, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountebanks with