in this plot of ground, there was (in that yeere) more than 5000. persons buried, as i have read in the charters of edward the third. also i have seene and read an inscription fixed on a stone crosse, some-time standing in the same church-yard and having these words: *anno domini, 1349. regnante magna pestilentia, consecratum fuit hoc cemeterium, in quo & infra septa presentis monasterii, sepulta fuerunt mortuorum corpora, plusquam quinquaginta milia, præter alia multa abhinc usque ad presens, quorum animabus propitietur deus, amen.* in consideration of the number of christian people here buried, the said sir walter manny caused first a chapel to be builded, where (for the space of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and it is to be noted, that above 10000. bodies of christian people had in that church-yard beene buried, for the said knight had purchased that place for the buriall of poore people, travailers, and other that were discafed, to remaine for ever; whereupon, an order was taken, for the avoiding of contention betweene the parsons of churches and that house, to wit, that the bodies should bee had unto the church where they were parishioners, or dyed, and after the funeral service done, had to the place where they should be buried. and the yeere 1371. he caused there to bee founded an house of carthusian monkes, which he willed to be called the *salusazion*, and that one of the monkes should be called prior, and he gave them the sayd place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chapel, and houses there builded for their habitation. he also gave them the three acres of land, lying without the wals on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of *westminster*, and the lands of the prior of *saint john*; which three acres being purchased, inclosed, and dedicated by *ralph stratford*, bishop of *london*, as is aforeshewed, remained till our time, by the name of *pardon church-yard*, & served for burying of such as desperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, who were fetched thither usually in a close cart, bayled over and covered with blacke, having a plaine white crosse thwarting, and at the fore-end a s. johns crosse without; and within a bell ringing by shaking of the cart; whereby the same might be heard when it passed, & this was called the fryery cart, which belonged to s. johns, and had the privilege of sanctuary. in this charter-house were the monuments of the said sir walter manny, and margare his wife, *marmaduke lumley*, *laurence bromley*, knight, sir edward hederfet, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame *iohan borough*, *john dore*, *want water*, knight, *robert olney*, esquire, *katharine*, daughter sir *william babington*, knight, *blanch*, daughter to *hugh waterton*, *katharine*, wife to *john at poor*, daughter and heire to *richard lacie*, *william rawlin*, sir *john lenthaine*, and dame *margaret* his wife, daughter to *iohn fray*, *john peake* esquire, *william baron*, and *william baron*, esquires, sir *thomas thawtes* knight, *philip morgan*, bishop of *ely*, 1434. in the cloystrie, *bartholomew rede*, knight, *mayor of london*, buried 1505. sir *john popham*, &c. this monastery, at the suppression in the 29. of henry the 8, was valued at 642. l. 4. d. halfe penny yeereley. here now i find fit time, to commend to all succeding posterity, the duly deserved praises of that truly worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, master *thomas sutton*, the right phoenix of charity in our times. this late dissolved charter-house, by *west smithfield*, belonging then to the right honorable *thomas earle of suffolke*, after lord treasurer of england, is sufficiently known to be a very large and goodly mansion, beautified with spacious gardens, walkes, orchards and other pleasures, enriched with divers dependencies of lands and tenements thereto belonging, and very aptly feated for wholesome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodiousness of situation, and largeness of circuit, gave occasion to this well-minded gentleman master *sutton*, to affect that house, as the onely place, whereon to build this charter-house at hallingbury in essex now here intended to remove the hall-pall. the works there-ancebrance of m. thomas sutton. i have truly let downe all this, as it was delivered mee in writing by a gentleman of good worth and credit. build the foundation of his religious purpose. for, among other his christian determinations, hee had formerly intended to build an house at *hallingbury bouchers in essex*, to be an hospital for such poore men and children as he himselfe (in his life time, or future governors for the same to bee deputed) should thinke fit to bee lodged and relieved there: also, for a schoole-master and vishe, to teach children to reade and write, and instruct them in the latine and greeke grammar: with a learned divine likewise to preach the word of god to them all, and a master beside, to governe all those people belonging to that house. to this blessed end and purpose, hee had procured (by earnest suit) power by an act of parliament, to build such an hospital in the towne of *hallingbury bouchers*, and that the same should be named, *the hospital of king james*, founded in *hallingbury* in the county of *essex*, at the humble petition, and at the onely costs and charges of *thomas sutton*, esquire: appointing also such honourable, reverend and worthy persons, as by the said act of parliament were nominated and appointed, to bee the first and infant governors of the lands, poffessions, goods and revenues of the said hospital. but afterward, upon more grounded deliberation, and finding this goodly house of the *charter-house*, to bee much more convenient for the purpose, than that to be builded at *hallingbury* could be: hee became an earnest suiter to the earle of *suffolke*, to purchase that house of him, acquainting his honor with the alteration of his minde concerning *hallingbury*, and his earnest desire to make the *charter-house* his hospital. the earle being honourably enclined to so godly a motion, the matter sustained the lesse debating between them: but the price being concluded on, the bargaine and sale was assured. the summe disbursed for this purpose, amounted to 13000. l. which was paid downe in hand, before the enfealing of the conveyance. then hee became suiter againe to his majesty, to performe all that at the charter-house, which he had formerly intended at *hallingbury*: whereo the king readily yeeled, being graciously affected to so charitable a worke, and granted his letters patents to the same effect. and the right reverend father in god, *george*, archbishop of *canterbury*, *thomas lord ellesmere*, lord chancellor of england; *robert lord high treasurer of england*; *iohn the elect bishop of london*; *lancelor bishop of ely*; *sir edward coke*, knight, chiete justice of the common pleas; *sir thomas foster*, knight, one of his majesties justices of the common pleas; *sir henry hobard*, knight and baronet, attorney general; *iohn overall*, deane of *pauls in london*; *george mountaine*, deane of *westminster*; *henry thursby*, esquire, one of the masters of the chancerie; *giffrey nightingale*, esquire; *richard sutton*, esquire; *iohn law gentleman*; *thomas browne*, gentleman; and the master of the hospital of *king james*, founded in the *charter-house*, within the county of *middlesex*, at the humble petition, and the onely costs and charges of *thomas sutton*, esquire, were elected, nominated and ordained by the kings most excellent majesty in his letters patents granted, to bee the first governors of the lands, poffessions, revenues and goods of the fore-said hospital, and continuall maintenance thereof in forme following. all his mannors and lordships of *southminster*, *norton*, *little hallingbury*, alias *hallingbury bouchers*, and *much stanbridge*, in the county of *essex*. all those his mannors and lordships of *basingthorpe*, alias *buffingthorpe* and *dunnesby* in the county of *lincolne*. all those his mannors and lordships of *saltrop*, alias, *saltrop*, alias, *haltrop*, *chilton* and *blackgrove*, in the county of *wils*. and also all those his lands & pasture-grounds, called *blackgrove*, contayning by estimation 200. acres of pasture, with the appurtenances in *blackgrove* and *wroughton*, in the said county of *wils*. and also in that his mannor of *miffenden*, otherwise called the mannor of *miffenden*, in the parishes of *wroughton*, *tydyerde* and the fifth governors appointed by letters patents, of king james his hospital, founded in the charter-house. the lands made over by master sutton for the maintenance of the said hospital for ever, in the county of essex. in the county of lincoln. in the county of wils. lands & pasture grounds in wils. in the counties of cambridge, essex and middlesx. ball of pope clements charter-house, church-yard prepared of the poore, so to remaine for ever. vis for the fryery cart.