john. 7. 7. cannot hate them, but him it hated: the reason followeth, not for iniury but for innocency, not for faithhood but for truth: he testified that the workes thereof were euill. 1. john 5. 19. what is the cause that true pietie and grounded sincerity is of so small account, but because the world of the vngenerate lieth in wickednes, and faith to carnall affections bringeth little contentment? how can it be that oppressours, extortioners, vsurers, these idolatrous worldlings, together with thousands of delicious prodigals, should entertaine the gospell: since *zacheus* must diuide his goods, *mathew* must bid farewell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vse this world as if they vied it not? how hard therefore will it be for such as trust in vncertaine riches, to subiect themselves to this life of faith? may not gods ministers take vp a lamentation, what happy tidings from the word of faith which we preach? how is the way to euerlasting blisse plainly beaten forth, yet how few delight to walke in it? how sluggish are our common professours, that cannot watch one houre? 1. cor. 9. 37. the life of faith very dis- solut to na- ture. houre? and how faithlesse are those backsliding hypocrites, as if the vouchingable possessours of heaven and earth were vnfaitfull, or vnable to recompence and fully reward his faithfull people? thus we see, that straight is the way, and small is the number that goe it. *hebriam* is an vnruely heifer that will not be ramed. euer haue gods saints bene like the shaking of an oliue after the vintage. wicked men are mad men, they will not be ordered; they are dease men, they will not heare, charme the charmer neuer so wisely. if that be siue which is not done of faith, how wofull will it be with the greatest number, who neither know nor beleue, being blinde and dissolute: having from their monage to their old age wandered from the waies of god, being seuen fold more the children of hell then they were in their mothers wombes? if all actions that want faith be sins, how many are the sins of those who were neuer enlightened with the knowledge of god? my text hath driuen me into such a narrow straight, & so pated me in, that i cannot get liberty, either to licence the pouelties of the athenians, old naturall men are very miserable, for they are full of sinnes.