to those granted to the english east-india compa¬ ny at first, they would have found there was no reason to charge his majesty with granting us such immense or unparallel’d privileges, or ascribing it to his not well knowing what he did for the noise of the guns at namur, as this petulant scrib¬ ler does. dedication, pag. 9. but if h—s and his suborners exclaim against our privileges as immense, they are resolv’d to diminish the authority by which they were grant¬ ed, and call it only by the name of an odtroy, which signifies no more than a patent; vhereas our privileges were granted us by an act of par¬ liament, which are greater and more sacred than all the octroys in europe : thus thro ignorance or ma¬ lice they think fit to vilify his majesty's conduct and authority, which they pretend to defend. their malice is further demonstrated by the pa¬ renthesis (to be presum'd) in the 2d puige of the de¬ cation, where they speak of his majesty's promise to interpose his royal authority to do us right in case oi disturbance,, and that at the publick charge (to be pre¬ sum’d) lof bis antient kingdom. there might possi¬ biy haye been some need of their presumption, had all mankind been indow dwith as little sense and honesty as –— and his subotners; for nó other body could eyer presume it to mean any thing else, since our acts do dot oblige england : tho il they. hadcpresum’d thar our enemies would take care thanthe said promise should not be kept, thé refusal of lending our company the 3 men of war built at the charge ofour own nation, would soon hayé couvinc’d the wonld that thef had pre¬ sum'd tootrue. . . "we hare accounted fot rejecting mn. douglas" proposat elseivhere; nor shall we take notice di h—5’s scurrilous reffections on mt. parerfon, which which only discover his own temper, but do that honest man nohurt. as to his charging us with squandring away sooco l. on o hulks at amsterdam and hamburgh, purely to make a noise of our proceed¬ ings, &c. we would desire him and his suborners to reconcile it with what they say from p. 14, to 20. whcre they own themselves that the dutch and hamburgers were both mightily pleas’d with the design, p. 14. that the dutch mere tickled mith tbe conceit that they should be sharers in the scots trade; and p.16. they say, that that mhich gave the dead stroke to the scots design, mas the east and west-india companies running open mouth'd to the lords of am¬ sterdam, shewing mhat mas hatching by the scots com¬ missioners in their city to ruine the trade of the unit¬ ed provinces. p. 17. they tell us, that the ham¬ burgers thought it the more their interest to embrace the project, the morc that the dutch oppos'd it : p.18.tha: our affair mas generally favour'd by the burgers of hamburg; and p. 21. that the geverament cf eng¬ land sent the senate of hamburgh a gaution hy sir paul ricaut to take care how thoy suffer'd their burghers to embark mith us. so that here we condemn them from their own mouths : it being plain froer those concessions, that we did not idly squander away our money at hamburgb and amsterdam; but that both those trading cities approv’d our design, and would have engag’d in it, had not the court ot england and the duich oppos’d it; and thereforc what loss of mony we sustain’d in those places, must he charg'd to their account; so that h—3 hath verified the proverb, that liars have need of good meniories. this is not the only instance wherein thosc of h. — : and his suborners have giv’n them the¬ slip; for in the ath page of the dedication, they e 3 upbraid early english books ontine, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of burke library, union theological seminary