(6008) thesc trees are exceedingly different amongst themselves; for, some shoot up in a or 3 bodies; others in one, as this. their leaves are many of them dead, and most discolour’d, unless on very young trees. they are not at all beautiful, nor so a¬ greeable to the eye, as the fruit is to the palate of them that love chocolatto. the number of codds the tree produces, is uncertain: but we reckon, a bearing tree vields from 2 to 8 pound of nuts a year ; and cach codd contains from zoto 30 nuts. the manner of curing themis; to cut them down vhen they are ripe, and to lay them to sweat ꝗ or 4 dayes in the codds; which is done by laying them on heaps. aster this they cut the codds, and take out the nuts, and put them into a trough cover’d with plantan-leaves, where they sweat again about 16 or 20 days. the nuts that are in each codd, are knit together by certain fibres, and have about them a white kind of pulp, that’s agreeable to the palate. by the turning and swetting their litt le strings are broken, and the pulp is imbibed and mingled with the substance of the nut. after this, they are put to dry 3 or 4 wecks in the sun, and then they become of a reddish dark colour, as you see, and so are cured. what is remarkable in this fruit is,that the codds grow on¬ ly out of the body or great limbs and boughs ; and that at the same time, and in the same place, there are blossoms, young and ripe fruit. these trees bear at different times;the greatest cropat most of our cacao walks is in december and tanuary: but at one of colonel aaodifords walks, whence this tree was taken, they bear most in may; yet its not above 5 miles fron those waiks, which bear alwaies in december: but those that bear then, have some fruit in may; as the other have in december. ie's planted first in the nut, alwaies under fhide : some do it under caßive; others, under plantan-tree, and some in the woods. the spaniards used a certain large shady plant, call'd by them midre di cacao: me only th’others ; and sel¬ dom transplant, only vehere it fails, acit doth many times in o¬ poa, poor and dry lands: for, this tree requires to be shel¬ ter’d