26 preservatives against the plague. perficiall parts, and there to apply the rumps of chickens, as before is taught you, and so apply to the place some strong maturative, and atrractive plaister, or cataplasme, as hereafter shall be shewed you. if the greif be in the head or throte, then apply ventoses to the neck: ifit be in the emunctuaries of the heart, then apply them to the shoulders: if in the e¬ munctuaries of the liver, then apply them to the buttocks on thiglis, now vhen this is done, either by lhlebetomy, or ven¬ toses, chen within an hour or tuo at the most after it, you must give the sick some good cordiall medicine, which hath power to comfort the heart, resist the venomous matter, and also prorure sieat, whereof out of the following you may make choice as you list. an excellent good ponder to expell the plague, which also pro¬ vokth smeat. r. roots of gemian, bittanie, petasitis, ana, 3.i. roots ofi tormentill, dittander, ana, 3 iii. red sanders 3. 8. fine pearle of both sorts, ana, 9.i. fine bolarmoniack prepared, fine terra sigillata, ana, 3. vi. rindes of citrons, red corrall, roots of zedoiar, shaving of ebony, bone of a stags heart, ana, six¬ teen graines: fragments of the five pretious stones, ana, 2. 8. shaving of a unicorns horn, succini, ana, 3. s. leaves of gold and silver, ana, one and half in number, make all these in fine powder, every one severall by himself, and then mix them all together, and give thereof 3.i. or 3. iiii. more onlesse as occasion requireth, either in sorrell, scabios, or cardgas benedictus water rwo or three ounces, whereunto you must adde a litrle sirrup of lemons, or sour citrons, and giveit warm, the bolarmoniack must he pounded small, then washed in scæbios water, and so dryed. auother good pomde»¬ r. leaves of dittander, called dictami cretici, roots of termentil, bittanie, pimpernell, gentian, zedoiar, ana, 3. i. terra lemnia, alloes cicatrina, fine myrrh, rinds of sour citrons, ana, .. early english books online, copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of library of congress preser vatives against the plague. 27 ana 3 i. mastick, saffron, ana, half a drachm. bolarmoniack prepared as beforesaid, 3 ii. all these must be made in fine pouder, and so mixt together, you may give two scruples, or one drachm thereof with any ol the aforesaid wacers. a good opiat to expeil veneme, end provobe smeat. conserve of the floures of burrage, bugloss, violets, bit¬ tanie, ana, 3. ii. venes triadle 3, ii. red terra sigillatz, terra lemnia, mithridate, ana 3. ¡. shaving of ebonie, and harts-horn, orient pearls, roots of tormentill, ana 3 i shaving of unicorns horn, root of angelica, ana half a drachm. sirrup of the juice of small sorrell and bugloss, ana, so much as shall suffice. mix all these together in the form of an opiat, then take of the same opiat, one drachm and half. scabios water, balm water, ana 3 ii. dissosve the opiat in the uacers, and drink it warm, then walk a little uponit, and then goe to bed and sueat. another excellent good means to expell the venom, and procure sweat. take a great white onyon, and pick out the coar or mid¬ dle of him, then fill the hole with good venus triacle, on andromachus triacle, and aqua vitæ, then stop or cover the hole of the onyon again, and rost him in the hot ashes un¬ till he be soft, then strein it strongly through a cloth, and eive it the sick to drinke, and the rest that remains, pound it small, and apply it to the sore, and sweat upon it. now when he hath taken any of the aforesaid cordials, if he chance to vomit it up again, then uash bis mouth with roscwater and vinegar, and then give him more of the same again, xhich must be proportioned according to the quantitie vomited, for if all vere vomited, then give so much more: (if lesse) thert according to the quantity vomited, and if he vomit chat also, then give him more, and so continue it 10 h h h