the art of making sugar. texture, a fhininz snowy whiteness, and so transparent that common print may be read through the thickest part of a large loaf. tais iort of sugar may be scented with different flowers, by strewing the flowers on the moist cloths, and renewing them as often as the cleths are changed, and twice a day besides: the water, filtering through the cloth, carries down mith it those particles of tne fourers in which their fragrance resides, and lezves them in the suger. labas relates, that tuelve hundred pounds of refined sugar vield oniy fiye hundred and forty-six of fagar royal. the french prepare, in imitation of the royal, a sort of sugar which ther call sucre tappe. this is no other than the common claved fugar rasped verę fine before drying, and rammed into small moulds which have been pre¬ viousty moistened with water. this sort of sugar looks very beaurifal: but as is particles have no natural union, they separate upon the least moisture, and run into melasses. 3. of sugar-candy. sugar-candy is made from the muscavado or clayed sugars, by dissolving them in weak lime water, and after due clarification setting them to cry¬ stalize or shoot in a hot room. the moulds are furnifhed with a number of fmall sticks laid across for the sugar to shoot upon: their lower aperture is almost closed, so as to suffer the part which remains liquid to filter through very slowly. wvhen the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it is carried with all possible expedition into an hot stove, immediately poured into the moulds, and the stove kept strongly heated. the sugar concretes upon the sticks into crystaline masses, of a white or brown colour, according as the sugar was pure or impure. appendix. the art of fermenting and distilling melasses, &c. for rum, or inflammable spirit. 1. of the fermentation ef the cone juice in general. all kinẽs of swset vegetable juices are capable of being converted, by means of siew fermentation, into vinous liquors, which may either be preserved in that fosm, or made to vield by distillation an infammable spirit; by a hasty fermen¬ tacion, or a slow one long continued, they are changed into vinegars. the native juice of tne suger cane, as it is eminently sweet, is likeurise in a particular manner dispoled te ferment; but without a great deal of address runs, bevond the process of vinous fermentation, into an acetous state. after it has undergone a degree of fire, it becomes less susceptible of these changes; and does not ferment readily uithout the asustance of such matters as promote this operation: such is the flower or head which arises upon liquors during fermentation, &e. here