c-et- (ue 245 6 7 l 2 **. 1 birections for the sugar plums. sugar 90 o solo 2 o o u. 2 —a me forms often keep in cuicti ill health, that no bodv can-eell what they ail (litile dreaming, it to be from mor ms) till they sce these uvorms to come a vay alive, in the, close stool, by the fa¬ mous purging sugar plums, which até innocent, and safe, as a citgle manna, or raubarb, or, 2.ori a veiste. wediprunes, with sena, «tuere qie no worms at all, there ausher slicti a thing this day in the worldl again, for a most delicate eine. purge, where a fine safe purge may be wanted--tofree the body foul hurnours, aud thereby cure its distempers. as is daily experienced in famillies.--:50 that. a. few pe vny worths. only of these plums will save a. deal cf. charges in phyfick and. preserze more lives, then half thé p'hysick in towm. du recover. g m mon, suggar plums at the confectioners, are indeed bigger than these, but for colour, taste &c. these may be caten by chiloren, like a common sugir plum. or. like any sweet meat you can give the child to please it.—or, you may bruise and dissolye them. like a bit of l04e sugas, in a little tea, milk, beer, gruel,i 8c. and so take them, whichlis a very good way. nigms et worms, are-a rig belly, which, o these rare little siigar plums, presently, take down, and the. children arc soon quite well fale looks, hollow eyes, stinking breath, itching ef the nose, which makes children often rubbing t. unequal sleep, with startings, and grying out. in loosenels, coughing, gripes & pininz away. pain and sickness at stomach, irclining to vo nit. a great appetite, and craveing for victuals frequently crying restleis and ilneasy, & no bedy can telt with or what they au or would have, or vlat t9 giys them for rase. my henever than a child is out of order, let it immediately, and out of hand, eat one only of these plums. and if but eaten 3 time will save a deal of charges in plysick, & recover more children from illnest than loads of other physick. nountry suiop keeprs through out the whole kingdom, sell adeal of rhese gum openning remedies and plums which proves so very quick a retuen that they still send to templebar for moré & more of them. and uhat is not sold, arc retumed at any time. nd any order shall be immediately deliverede to any carrier, stage coach, waterman, or cortespondents. you shall please to order, to any part: of the kingdom these sugar plums prescntly curé an agues, aud intemitting eever, tlie gead aci, cholick) gripes rhumatism thickness of hearing, sickhess and pain at stomachdropsy grecn sickiels, want ot appedite, cougais, and short breath, giving imuicdiate ease and easy breith. (ne only otr these litde plums (of a penny) is menough zò bring these worms with foul & gros¬ humours away from a child of 2 or 3 years old -¬ and half a plum for younger children: w o plums given toa child of 4. 5. or 6. years y old, to bring worms away, thre plums, to one of 8. 9, or 10. years old, for a fine safe purge. and manor woman, may take a. 5. or 6.of them whenthey want to be finely furged, and to have foul flumours out of theis cody. and after every workings by which you'l see a toäd of foul. humours, as green as grass, drinke a deal of warm broth, water gruel, ale or tea, the more you drink the berter they will work 1f not given stools enough add a plum next time the oniy harm of a plum more for a dose would only be a stool ot two the more. missinga day or two between each, these plums should be taken 3 times because once only takeing does not purge out of the body all the worms, and foul huriours, and. may he taken ay. meathez heat gr rrost, ycor duzalueetha....... 7 -ia.. =—