196 beautisying ialers, all cankers, and cure a stinking breath, and preserve the teeth from rottenness. 76. to procure an excellent colour and complexion in the face, used bythe c. of s. take the juice of hyssop, and drinkit in a morning fasting, half a dozen spoon¬ fuls in ale, warm; it will procure an ex¬ cellent colour, is good for the eye-sight, destroyeth worms, and is good for thę stomack, liver, and lungs. 57.to krep the teeth white, and kilt worms. take a little salt in a morning fasting, and hold it under your tongue till it be melted, and then rub your tecth with it. 58. te procure beanty, au excelleut wash. take four ounces of sublimate, and oné ounce of crude mercury,, and beat them together exceeding well in a wooden mortar, and wooden pestle; you must de oyls, and powders. 197 dait at least six, or eight hours, thet vith osten change of cold water, takc auay the salts from the sublimatc, change your water twice every day at least, and in sçyen or cight days it will be dulcified, and then icis prepared; lay it on with oyt of white poppy. 10. a beauty-water for the face, by madam g. take lye that is not too strong, and put tyyo peels of oranges, aad as much c:¬ tron-pecl, bloffoms of cimomile, bay¬ leaves, and maiden-hair, of each a hand¬ ful, of agrimony two or three ounces, of barley-straw chopt in pieces, a hand¬ sul, as much fenugreek, a pint of vine¬ leaves, twoor three handfuls of broom¬ blossoms; put all these into the lye, and mingle them together, and so wash the head therewith, put to it a little cinamon and myrrh, let it stand, and wash your face therewith every evening: it is good to wash the head, and to comfort the brain and memory. ~~ earty englizh bookz online. copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of bodielan lbrary k3 60. againse