the state of the island of jamaica. 41 erful prince charles, king of great britain, &c. in order to the restoring and regulating the same, for the fu- ture; to send into spain his envoy extraordinary, sir william godolphin, kuight¿ ith full authority and pover to mate any treaty convenient and proper for that end; and libevise the most serene and powerful charles, ring of spain, &c. and the queen regent maria anna, gc. for the camying on a ilork of so much piety aud pub¬ lick good, deputed on their part, the earl of penaran-. da, counsellor of state, and prefident of, the indies, to¬ confer, treat, and conclude thereupon, quith the said sio william godolphin : at length they mutually resplued. and agreed upon the articles of the followvins treaty-ih, virtue of their several commissions. irst, it is agreed be¬ y slon; ni b bas b'eira i tween the above menti- tbe treaty of 1667. con¬ oned plenipotentiaries sir wil¬ firmed. liam godolphiz, and the earl of vó. 1n penaranda, in the names of the most serene kinga respectively, their masters, that the articles of peace and alliance, made between the crowns of great britain and spain, in madrid, on the ai of may, 1667. or any clause thereof,y fhall in no manner be deemed, or understood to be taken a¬ way, or abrogated by this present treaty; hut that the same fhall remain perpetually in their ancient force, stability, and vigour, so far forth as they are not contrary, or repugnant to this present convention and-articles, or to any. thing therein contained. ii. a ee uii that there be an univer-, an universal peace, 22 sal peace, true and sincere veh in america ás else¬ wvhere. .23x7 amity in america, as sin the 10 -otbotord ed: e other