early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library 3 p re .a mtas de quee y has been plearea to direct, mhat a month- correspondence be established between this kingdom, and her majesties dominions on the continent of america, packet-boats, to pass to, and from bristol and new-torke, between which last place, and the several provinces, colonies, and settlements of newo¬ england, eust and i'est-fersey, pensilvania and rhode-island, regular inland-posts are already settled, and others are about to be settled, through maryland, virginia, north and south-carolina, for the mor¬ easie and expeditious conveyance of all letters and packets, which ihall be conveyed by means of the said packet-boats. these are therefore to give notice thereof, and that shortly a pre¬ fix'd time will be published, when letters and packets will be taken in at the general post-office, and at the several post-offices throughout great-britain, and ircland, and a day be appointed in each month, when the mails will be dispatched from the general post-office for bristol, from whence the packet-boats are to take their departure. the rates for the portage of letters and packets, to, and from the general post-office in london and new-tork, being as follows. for every single letter, not exceeding ?i 0 one sheet of paper, for every double letter, not exceeding! 2 9 two sheets of paper and in probortionto the fame rates for every packet of letters. and for packets of any kind of greater ! a e weight, for every ounce the packet-boats are to be of the burthen of about eighty tonns, built on purpose for sailing, of strength to resist the seas, well mann’d, and commodioussy contrived for entertaining passengers, who will be kindly received, and entertained on board, on easie terms. the said packet-boats are permitted to carry out upon freight, the quantity of five tonns in goods, and bring home ten tonns, whereby all people may send small parcels to new tork, or any other place from thence by land-carriage, and be accommodated therein at reasonable rates. as they may be more particularly informed by iilliam warren, undertaker of the said packet-boats, in crowon-court, in gracious street, london, printed by j. sowle, in wbite-hart-court in gracious-street. ee "r.