234 ell sorts ot them with your knife, and season them with salt, nutmeg, mace and pepper, and having first wash’d your pork on the inside with yolks of eggs, wash the out¬ side of your veal therewith, and lay it within your pork; lastly, strow on your re¬ maining seasoning, and rowl it up hard, binding it with tape: when it is boil’d, souce it in some of the same liquor, with a little vinegar, beaten pepper and ginger; when you serve it up, stick your pork with bay-leaves or rosemary and flowers, gar¬ nishing your dish with flowers and sage. rams head souced. cut the head off, with a good part of the neck adjoyning to it, and boil it with the skin on a good while ; when it is throughly boiled, (which will require a considerable time) take it up and pluck off the skin, then take broth you have boil¬ ed some fresh meat in, and boil it over a¬ gain, with vinegar, salt, a good handful of lwwect herbs, ginger, pepper, a good piece 96 horse-raddish root scraped, and a quarr per of a pound of french-barley; ibeing boiled, strain them through a bag, and souce the head in it; you may serve it ur flesb souceù. 235 up either in slices, or whole with the horns on. sides of lamb souced. bone your side of lamb, soak it and squeeze it well from the blood, wipe it dry. and season the inside with beaten nut¬ meg, ginger, some sweet herbs minced small, whole coriander-seed, minced le¬ mon-pill and salt; lastly, some slices of broad lard over all : then rowl it up in a coller, and tye it up in a clean cloth, put it into your liquor when it boils, and scum it very well, and then put in fliced ginger, fliced nutmeg, salt, fennel and parsley roots,; being almost boiled, put in a quart of white wine, when it is enough take it off, and put in slices of lemon, with the pill of two whole lemons; boil it close covered to make the veal look white. thus you may order a breast of veal, or any joynt of mutton, kid, fawn or venison. swan coller'd. bone your swan, and part the twosides, season it according to the foregoing dire¬ ctions in the soucing of geese, season it with early englis books online, copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library