a letter from jamaica, to a friend in london, concerning kid-napping. sir, yours found me a little indispos'd; but yet i made the best enquiry my 1 health and opportunity would give me leave to answer your deftres. the relation you have sent me of the great abuses in the spiriting away of children, makes a very sad story; and must needs be a lamentable grief to their parents that have lost them. you should have done well to have sent me the names of those that are missing; or if you think fit to have me look anv further into this business, pray let me receive your further directions at your best leisure. we are not without apprehensions here in this place for the divisions in england; i wish we may yet live to meet again in comfort and peace. the paper which i send you here enclosed, is all i was able to do in so short a time; but upon the truth of it you may depend. i do not know but you may find in this list some unhappy people that you look for; and it would bew ell if you made a publication of it in one of the comon news papers: mr. janeway, or mr. curtis, i make no doubt will do it for you, and it may be so notified, as that any of those good people that have lost their children, may understand whither to repair for sa¬ tisfaction. if you know no better a way, you might do well to apply your self to mr. john wilmore in jewen-street, who is a planter himfelf, and knows all the tricks of those rascals. besides that, he is a man of business in the city, a large acquaintance, a true protestant, and ( if i am not mistaken) a common-council¬ man. he is very industrious and charitable beside; and if there should be occasion, he is as likely to assist you as any man i know : thô it were to go as far as the hope upon the errand, to save a poor child from want, and slavery. i need say no more to you, than that if you have his friendship, he can tell you all the ways of the tra¬ pan: how they take up children, inviegle them away, and the conveieances they have for the concealing of them. these kid-nappers will tell you perhaps that a child was ready to be eaten up with vermin, and they took him in compassion; that they could not get quit of him, or persuade him to come back it may be, thô he were ready to leap into the sea: wherefore you must get a discreet justice to examine the mater; so the rest i leave to your discretion. little wil takes to his business very well ; and i hope his friends will have com¬ fort of him. pray commend me to all my good friends and acquaintance in your neighbourhood, and pardon all faults; for i must immediately take my leave of you, and subscribe my self your affectionate kinsman and servant, 14 if any person named in the following list, shall be found to have been spirited away: notice may be lest with mr. walter davis, in amen-corner, who will give directions how to make a further enquiry. the number of whites. 1. joseph ruffel. 2. widiam burne. 3. george shallitoe. 4. vrban rony. 5. andrew reddal. 6. william polliard. 7. john brown. 8. richard sevitor. s. richarb sebitor. 9. james durham. 10. george french. 11. thomas woodcock. total of thewhites —11. jamaica, decemb. 30.1681. the number of whites that dyed in my time. thomas hughs. peter peterson. john gwartwrite. thomas davies. samuel hodgley. sold in my time. thomas martin. thomas barber. free. walliam ward. richard barret. lost at law with fountain. — 3