3 the unhappt l a g e. giving an account of the royal anne galley, captain willis commander which was split to pieces on the stag rocks on the lizzard the roth of november, 1721. having on board the lord belhaven, who was going as governor to barbadoes, with several other persons of distinction, the whole number on board being 210, out of which there werc only three saved; whose names are george hain, wiltton godfrey, and thomas laurence, a boy. to the tune of, womens work is never done, &c. 1! the sad and dismal story, brought from off the lizzard rocks, the royal ame in all her glory, there receiv'd a fatal shock: the winds and waves did both conspire, for to ruin all therein: oh belhaven ! brave belbaven! most unhappy hast thou been. governor unto barbadoes, he was sailing bold and brave? litrle dreaming it was his fortune, for to have a watry grave with many more brave noble persons, which were put in place of trust, but oh! their sands were just expiring, their time was come and die they must. above two hundred souls were perish'd, in an instant all were lost by furious winds and waves were driven, on the stag rocks they were cast; oh! the dismal cuies and scriekings twould have pierc'd a heart of stone, when the galley split to pieces, for to hear their pitious moan. of ail that were on board the vessel, ouly three could reach the shore, wvho on a wreck by the winds were carried throꝯ the waves and billous roar: then praise the lord for his great mercy, you that thus have been preserv'd, adore and magnifie his goodness, willingly your maker serve. captain i illis was commander, ar this most unhappy. time, savage to be attorney general, with many more just in their prime, where going over for to setrle, at barhadoes we do hear, but by the ocean they were follow'd, as they did their courses steer. what a scene of dismal horror, there vas seen when this was ore, bodies floating on the ocean by the waves were drove on shore, and the country people running, striving vho should get the most, stripping all without distinction, tis the custom of the coast. one gentleman was drove on shore, "bout whom they found a thousand pound, whose names supposed to be crosier, by writings in hi pockets found: likewise they say the lord belhaven, having on a diamond ring his shirt marld b. the floating ocean, did to shore his body bring oh! the grief and sad distraction, which this accident hath brought, on the wives and near relations, of the persons that are lost; some for husbands, other fathers, brothers, kinsmen, do lament witb aking hearts, and weeping eyes, to think how from them they are rent. but now observe the dismal story, given by these three that’s sav’d, george hain, likewise n'illiam gedfrey, and thomas laurence, a boy ’tis taid, as to barbadoes we were sailing, lord belhaven, he did say come noble boys and jovial sailors, happy may our voyage be. but drawing near unto the lizzard, there the storm began to rise, nething then-but desolation, did appear before our eyes, such a dreadful scene of sorrow. sure before was never seen, oh belhaven! brave belhaven ? most unhappy hast thou been¬ captain i illis cry’d brave sailors, do your best, or die we must, lord have mercy, now relieve us, in thy providence we trust. save us in the time of danger, for death before our eyes appear, and when they found all hope were over, in tears they all fell down to prayer. then against the fatal rocks, the royal galley split in twain, two huudred souls aloud were crying. lord save us from the watry main, to see cach for his life a shifting, as the waves tost mountains high, the galley in the deep a sinking while dying groans did pierce the sky. ifee the noble lord belhaven, climbing to the top-mast high with many more of birth and breeding, who likeuise in tlle waves did die, at length the galley split in pieces, deathput an end to all their woe, we three poor souls upon a wreck, with waves vas tossed too and fro¬ at length unto the shore was driven, where the people took us in; we prais'd the lord for his great mercy, since we thus preserv'd have been, and sav'd us in the fatal hour, when the waves did us surround, and a many souls did perish, and before our eyes vere drown'd. oh! the dreadful grief and sorrow, that their wives and children bear, wives a weeping for their husbands, the children for their father dear, let each tender heart implore them, and pity the sorrow they are in, and think upon the lord belhaven, how unhappy he has been¬ a noble lady in the city, hearing of her husband's death twould have movd a heart ot pity, to hear the words she did express, crying, o my tender jewel, is a watry wave thy tomb, i'll search the deep to find my dear, o cruel death come seize me soon¬ thus she raves in sad distraction, in her bed with cords she's bound, crying night and day my jewel, he is in the ocean drown'd: thus many a mournful widow, and babies fatherless are made, consider then the many dangers which poor sailors thro' do wade. many more tuat night did perish, in the storm as we do hear, as in the downs the fleet was riding. some lord belhaven's fate did share; lord keep us from all such disaster, deliver us from sudden death and give us grace that we may serve, the mighty god while we have breath. e topyi... proquest ll° images reproduced by courtesy of british library