102 the laws of jamaica. — usual rates, to land such goods at, or carry them from any publick wharf, barkadier, 1712. .or landing-place; and that the persons belonging to such wharis, barkadiers, or land¬ — ing-places, fhall be, and are hereby required to permit the same: and whosoever shall how long wherrymen are to pis. owners of wharfs to offend contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act, shall, for every such of¬ fence, forfeit the sum of forty shillings; to be recovered before any magistrate of the parish or precinct where such offence is committed. v. anp be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that within one month af¬ ter the day of passing this act, the fare and hire of a wherry with two oars, between port royal and kingston, shall be four ryalls; and between port royal aforesaid and pas¬ sage fort, the like sum of four ryalls; and between kingston aforesaid and passage fort, the sum of six ryalls; and from port royal or kingston to the several places following. the hire and fare of such wherries with two oars shall be as follows, viz. to st. james's fort, five shillings; to bull bay, ten shillings; to tallows, twenty shillings; to morant, or port morant, forty shillings; to old harbour, pig bay, the bogne, or salt river, one pound, and so in proportion; that is to say, one half more than the prices respective¬ ly, as aforesaid, for wherries with four oars. vi. and be it further enacted by the authority aforefaid, that such wherrymen, as aforesaid, shall be, and are hereby obliged to ply from break of day to eighe o’clock at night, under the penalty (if he be a white man) that he shall forfeit ten shillings; and if he be a negro, he shall suffer thirty one lashes, to be ordered respectively by any magistrate, before whom complaint shall be made. vii. anp be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that weights and scales shall be kept by all owners or persons employed for the keeping of publick wharfs, keep scales for barkadiers, bays, and landing-places in this island, to weigh, if required, all sugar, in¬ the weighine of goods. coach hirc, digo, piemento, cotton, and other plantation goods, which shall come to such wharf, bay, barkadier, or landing-place, and the weight thereof respectively shall be entered into a book at each place to be kept for that purpose; and for such weighing and en¬ tring into such books, as aforesaid, they shall be paid fifteen pence for every hogshead, and seven pence halfpeny for every draught, be it more or less, of other goods of all sorts which shall be so weighed and entered, as aforefaid : and all wharfingers and other persons which shall receive any benefit at any such wharf, barkadier, or landing¬ place, shall give, or take care that receipts be given for all goods which shall be de¬ livered to them by any person demanding the same, such goods having been first weigh¬ ed, as aforesaid: and whosoever shall offend, either by neglecting to procure such scales and weights, or in not weighing the goods delivered to them, and entering the same in a book, as aforesaid, or not giving such receipts, as aforesaid, upon demand; every person so offending, shall, for every such offence, forfeit the sum of twenty pounds; to be recovered in the supreme court of judicature of this island, wherein no essoin, protection, or wager of law shall be allowed, or non vult ulterius prosequi be entered; any law, custom, or usage to the contrary notwithstanding. viii. and be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the owners or pro¬ prietors of any hackney coach or coaches, chariots, and four wheel chaises, which shall ply upon the road for hire, shall have one white man for each. such hackney coach or coaches, chariot, or chaise which shall so ply for hire; and the hire and fare shall be as follows, viz. for each coach to and from passage fort to spanish town and back again, that carries four passengers, thirty shillings; for each coach that car¬ ries three passengers, five and twenty shillings; and for two passengers, or for one passenger in any such hackney coach, chariot, or chaise, twenty shillings, and no more. ix. and be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the owners of all carts or waines that shall carry goods for hire, shall be obliged to keep one white man for the first cart or waine, and one white man more for every two such carts or waines they shall keep besides the first, to go forwards and backwards with such carts and waines; and that the fare and hire for such cart and waine shall be as follows, viz. for each l. cou hirs, hogshead of sugar, five shillings; for each barrel of beef, flour, herrings, or mack¬ owners ot hackney coaches, &c. to give upon oath an ac¬ count ot the numberof coaches by arel, the sum of one shilling and three pence, and so in proportion for carriage of other goods from spanish tovn to passage fort, and no more. x. and the owner of each such hackney coach, chariot, or chaise, as aforesaid, and of each cart and waine, or some person for him or her, shall give in an account upon oath at each session of the number of hackney coaches, chariots, chaises, carts, and waines which they keep respectively, and of the names of the white man or men particularly kept for cach hackney coach, chariot, chaise, cart or carts, waine or waines; which oath the justices at each session are hereby impowered to administer them tept, and and receive: and whosoever shall offend contrary to the intent of this act, either in the drivers names not keeping such white man for each such coach or coaches, chariot, chaises, cart or waine, or in not making such oath, for every such offence shall forseit the sum of ten boat-hire. 4 o e — e 2 2 f to n gi a0 2 of tho cia or. her of bin in ra and this afor nec afor ficer copl blar not pate fectu were i islan reco islan that exact be d each oath