treason, and more barbarous and cruell then the massacre of france, being destroyers of their own liberties, and sup¬ planters and overthrowers of the same religion that they themselves pretend to professe. the agreement betwixt the chavaliers and the malignants here in this city was, that about cleven of the clock on the tuesday night, a liouse peere unto froome gate was to be blowne up; which was to give warning to the chavaliers to make their onset; who against that hout wvere to draw downe unto the city, and prince roéert with his army came sonigh as the gallows: a bell at st. iohns cburch on a hill above the gates was to toule, another bell at st. michaels church upon the hill above the greenwas to ring, to give notice to the malig¬ nants of this towne to rise in an instant, sufficient parties wete made to have forced all the courts of guards, thereby to have let the cavalliers in without opposion; for that purpose there were in readinesse in the house of master george bulcher of christmasse street, a new made captaine for this designe, about 160 armed men, and in the house of master robert teomans (who was one of the sheriffes of this city the last yeere, foure and twenty men ready to put themselves in armes whichthere they had; the one to fup¬ prise the maine guard, the otber, the guard at froome¬ gate, and to let in these bloud sucking chavaliers, two other bells were to toule at the same time to give notice to the malignants to rise in all parts of the city. both monday and tuesday, white peecez of incle were given to divers, and ro the better sort of people ribbins, who did weare them in their bosoms and hats for distinction, and all that lad not the word charles, or those marks, were to be put tothe sword, murt he red and destroyed, besides divers houses in many places of the city were marked with white chalk, who were designed to utter ruine and destruction. t he businesse is not, as early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library as vet fully examined, but this and much more is consessed by the principle and maine plotters of this wickod designe? i want time to give you a perfect relation, you shall speedi¬ ly have a fuller and better account, as soone as ue have a little recovered our selves out of tlese distractions, for the prefent, here is enough to stitre you upeto joyn with us in the admiration of gods infinite goodnesse and mercy to us, and to give god his glory and prayse for this wounder¬ full and gracious deliverance, that hath preserved so many thousands of ùs that were intocent, and sold, and almost given up into the hands of these cruell and bloud thirsty men. the cheife actors of this mischievous designvvere the aforesaid robert teomans, and gtorge butther, mr. tobn taylor. mr. colestone, and his brother, mr. fitzherbert, two colsons, and two herberts, n. cule, e. arundle, mr. caple and captain cole of st.ugustinz who with at least one hundred more actors and accessories, ate already takeu and imptisoned in the castle, and hourely more are disco¬ vered and secured, many of them upon examination have confessed the plot to be in manner as before is described: and that threescore familiet of men, women, and children were to be put to the fword, without quarter, given in upon a note. twogoods house was searched and the re in were found many papers that did discover the whole plot, and betwecn three and four thousanl pounds in money and plate, and twenty muskets charged with bullets, besides divers instru¬ ments to murthet and destroy with cruelty, such as wee never saw before. a postscript. prince rupert and that army marched away as soone as their plot wasdiscovered, 2 fis tbe