43 houfe ladle, and another putring in a quart at a time. let the heat of the liquor be now raised to 140 legrces of the common pocket thermometer, let this fieat be continued one hour. skim it carc¬ fully. to five gallons of water put ten qunces of white marle, tobacco pipe clay, or other white bo¬ lar earth: ir you have not any of these, ten qunces of fuller's earth. let it be previously powdered, and vell mixed with the water. stir this in as che lime and water were directed to be, increafe the heat to 160. continue it half an hour.--skim.-increase your ieat to 190. continue it half an hour.---skim. increase the fire to 200, and fhut the door of your fire place, which puts it out. let yeur liquor re¬ main four hours undisturbed, and then draw it off into the recciver: if your process succeeds your liquor will be as bright as madeira wine. i should observe that when you have done filling one clarifyer you go on to the next, repeating the same procefs. from the receiver vour liquor is to to be conducted into the first copper. fer fear of burning, yon may throw a gallon into each cepper hung to the same fire, but after let vour liquor run into the first copper: when full, by means of the groove it will fill the second; and so on to the last copper; when all are sull let a small stream run into tla first copper just sufficient to equal the evapora¬ tion and keep them all full. by this management as thé sirit copper receives the sresh liquor, it’s con¬ tents will be constantly diluted; the contents of the second will be more dilute than those of the third, and fo on to the last copper; where the liquor uill be