or, the earl of essex. their queen, and i am weary of the load, . and want a friend like thee to lull my sorrows. c. ess. behold these tears sprung from fierce pain and joy, to see your wond’rous grief, your wondrous pity. o that kind heav’n wou’d but instruct my thoughts, and teach my tongue such sostning, healing words, that it might charm your soul, and cure your breast for ever. queen. thou art my better angel then, and sent to give me everlasting quiet– say, is’t not pity that so brave a man, and one that once was reckon'd as a god, that he should be the author of such treasons? that he, that was like cæsar, and so great, has had the power to make and unmake kings, shou'd stoop to gain a petty throne from me? c. ess. i can't believe'tis in his soul to think, much less to act a treason against you, your majesty, whom i have heard him so commend, that angels words did never flow with so much eloquence, so rare, so sweet, that nothing but the subject cou’d deserve. queen. halt thou then heard him talk ot me? c. ess. i have, and as of so much excellence, as if he meant to make a rare encomium on the world, the stars, or what is brighter, heav’n. she is, said he, the goddess of her sex, so far beyond all woman-kind befide, (ai *21 that what in them is most ador?d, and lov'd, their beauties, parts, and other omnaments, are but in her the foils co greater lustre, and all perfections else, how rare soever, are in her person but as lesser gleams, and infinite beams that usher, still the sun, but scarce are visible amidst her, other brightness. and then she is so good, it mighube said, that whilst she lives, a goddess reigns in enpland: for all her laws are regester din heaven, and copy’d thence by her—but then he cry'd, with a deep sigh fetch'd froms his loyal heart, wellmay the world bewnibi that, time at last,bi when fo much goodneis isball on ea thibe mortal, and wretched england brealciits stubborn hleart. queen. did he say all this? c. ess. all this! nay more, 5 a thouland times as much, i never siw him¬ 214 stallar m. 29 91 2