8 iii. a letter of that curious naturalist mr. henry barham, r. s. s. to the publisher, giving a re¬ lation of a fiery meteor seen by him, in jamaica, to stribe into the earth; with remarks on the weather, earthquakes, &c. of that ifland. sir, ccording to your request i have collected what l can temember, relating to a meteor i saw in jamaica about the ycar 1709, as i was riding one morning from my habitation situated about three miles north-w’est from st. jago de la vega: i saw a ball of fire, appearing to me of the bigness of a bomb, swiftly falling down with a great blazc. as l thought it fell into the town; but when ! came within a quar¬ ter of a mile of the town, i saw many people gather’d togcther a little to the southward in the savanna, to whom i rode up, where they were admiring at the ground’s being strangely broke and plough'd in by a ball of firc, which, as they said, fell dowa there. i observed there were many holes in the ground, one in the middle of the bignefs of a man’s skull, and five or six smaller holes round about it, of the bigness of a man’s fist, and so decp (especially the biggest) as not to be fathom’d by what long switches or sticks they had at hand. i did not hear that any was so cu¬ rious as to make any sarther search : it was observ d, that the green grass was perfectly burnt near the holes, and a strong smell of sulphur remain d thercabonts for a good while after. note that we had a terrible rainy night before, with much lightning and gréat thunder-claps, wnich we have the royal society is collaborating with jstor to digitize, preserve, and extend access to philosophical transactions (1683-1775).ntr www.jstor.org