— booke ii. booke ii. of canzonets. when he that sleers œ ill haue his will, and driue chem vhere he list pe force. so reason sheu es the truth invaine, where sond desice a king doth taigne. 130 of canzonets. away i wast wich terres by night in vaine, tearcs, sighes by night, by day enereasc thirpainc. mine eyes no cyes, but fountaines of my teares, my teares no teares, but floods to moytl my heart: my heart no heart, but labour of my fearcs, my feares no feare,, but feelings of my smart. my smart, my feares, my heart, my teares, mine cies arc blinde, dride, spent, past, wasted with my crics. and yet mine cies, though blind, sec cause of griefe, and yet my teares, though dride, runne downe amaine and yet my heart, though spent, attends reliefe. and yet my feares, though past, encrease my painc. and yet i liue, and liuing fecle more smrt, and imarting, cry in vaine, breake heauy heart. when xxxiii. canzonet. loues preperties. "wixt heat and cold, t’wvixt death and life, i ifrceze and burne, i liue and die: 1 hich ioyntly worke in me such ffrite i liue in death, in cold l fry. nor hot, nor cold, nor liue, nor dead, neither, and both, tis life i lead first burning heate sets all on firc, whereby i seeme in flames tofry: then cold despaire kils hot desire, that dtenched deepe, in death i lye¬ heate driues out cold, and keepes my lite. cold quencheth heure,: o end os strise the lesse l'hope to haue my will, the more i fecle desire encrease, and as desire encreaseth slill, despaire to quenchit doth not cease. so liue l'as the iampe, whose light ost comes, ost gocs, now dum, noy bright. k2 liuing xxxii. canzonet. desires gouernment. there wit is ouer-ruld by will, v and will is led by fond desire, t ere reison were as good be still, as speaking, kindle greater firc, for where desire doth beare the swax, the heart must rule, che head obay. what boots tlie cunning pilots skill, totell which way to thape their course: early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of the huntinqton library