346 wits coumon part.2. as the æthiope cannot change his skin, northe leopard alter his hew; & as it is not possible to gather grapes of thornes, or figges ot thictles: so is is to no purposc to force any thing to striut against nature. as in tilling of the ground and hus¬ bandrie, there is firit chosen a firtile soile, then a cunning sower, then good sced: cuen so we must compare nature to the fat earth, the expert husbandman rothe schoolemaster, the faculties and sciences to the purt sceds. as the fetill soile if it be neuer tillad doth vazbarren: sothat uhich is most noble by nature, is made most vilebi negligence. asthe torch turned downewardis extinguished with the selfesame waxt, svhich yas the cause of his lighe: so nature turned to vnkindnesse is quenched by those meanes it should bee kindled, leauing no branch o loue, where is found no roote of hu¬ manitic. parta. wealth. 365 neret. newei. § cooles wish for a plentifull ibrecd of cattell, and fisherí of fishes: so busie brained innouaters doc hunt after newes, and innouation in statcs. plut. as wee set vp meate from cats and dogges: so we must tale heed, what we speake before newes mongers, and in¬ finuating intelligencers. idem. at our bodies ars moreindangered by the spring, & in autume, by reason oschange: lo all noueltie doth offend and hurt the common-wcalth. as change of meate, drinke andaire doth offend, albet it be into like, or into better: so it is better still to re¬ taine our old princes and magistrates, then to gapefor new, bocause all in¬ nemation is full of danger and distur. bance. astion called homer from the dead, fornbne other cause, but to know from what parentage he was descended: lo many take great paines, and bestou much cost, oncly to heare newes, and know nouclcies. plin. lib. 30.cap. 2. 5 re.. earty english books online, copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of university of illinois library