the epistle dedicatery, violent? and on the contrary, upon the hind aspects of the suin, jupiter, and venus, they be not more gentle, mild, and refrigerating? and also, whether the arising of vour pleiades, hyades, and constellated eagle, &c. cchiefly when any eminent conjunction or aspect falls in mith them) do not certainly induce moisture ? i beseech you (my honoured and worthy friends) to take some notice of these matters, mhich you may easily do, by keeping a diary of the weather; as also of the effects of your vernal ingresses, (which i intend, god permitting me life, once a tear to present you mithal;) and pray ye also observe, together theremith, the transits, confunctions, &c. of the planets over the prime parts of vour islands palladium, or genesis; that they may be preserved by your generous communication, as mell for the advance of truth in science, as advantage of your selves and country. thus, northy friends and countrymen, mishing you all happiness, and, as so many successful columbus’s, to encrease as mell in vour acquaintance mith the influ¬ ences of the glorious diamonds of heaven, as in the gold and treasure of the indies; which cif st. paul may be credited, rom.1.19.) will lead ve certainly unto an enjoyment of that immortal treasure, of mhich saints and angels partake in heaven — i remain, brick-court, by the deans-yard, n'estminster. to your honoured selves, and to the truths of astrologie, a real servant, mhilst, john gadbury. . m. in, oh co do db ,cb. de do d mh. do do d do ss ò e àe ae or le aea26 tbe names of the several governours of lamaica, since the taking thereoj by the english, anno 1655. 1. —1he honourable col. d’oyley, was gover¬ ¬ nour thereof, first after its being taken. 2. the right honourable the lord of windsore, was governour thereof. 3. the honourable sir thomas modyford, knight aud baronet, was governour of this noble ifland; and he it was that commanded a general surveigh to be taken of it, at his own charge; and under him it began eminent ly to flourish. 4. the honourable and valiant sir thomas lynch, knight, succeeded sir thomas modyford, and is the present governour thercof; and under him hath this gallant country happily improved. l in my next years book, i shall (god permit¬ ting) give you a morc ample chronology ot the remarkables relating to this noble illand; togcther with an account of the commodities, and growth thereof. " the a table