book vi. mand of barbados. purslain, white and red, 165 these differ very little, if any thing, from those in england, e except in the rankness of their growth here. they are generally boiled and used, when more valuable greens are not in plenty. the arabian jessammy; lat. jasminum sive sambac arabum. this is a woody creeping vine, cloathed with dark-green sharp¬ i pointed leaves, of about two inches long, and one broad, bear¬ ing seven-leaved white fragrant flowers. these are supported by seven very sharp-pointed graminous leaves. this is planted chiefly in gardens, or near dwelling-houses. it yields a very agreeable fragrant smell, and keeps its verdure all the year. tithymaloides. he roots of this are very numerous and strong. l the main stalk branches near the earth, into many spiral strong twigs. the bark of the trunk, near the roots, is smooth and whitish; but all its branches of a deep shining green, keeping their grateful verdure undiminished thro' every season of the year. these are cloathed with thick succulent green round-pointed leaves, of about four inches long, and two in breadth, having their smooth edges a little tinged with yellow. these are likewise set on the branches alternately. the flower, which is of a fine deep red, cannot be reduced to anv class that hath hitherto been described by any botanical writer, it being a triangular sharp-pointed small horizontal sheath; the top of the pistil jutting out, making the extremity of the longest angle: this, on the in¬ side of the flower, is covered with a yellow farinaceous dust. from the same narrow aperture appear several small stamina, tipped with green apices. these flowers are succeeded by triangular small berries, of a dark red when ripe. each of these incloses three angular' seeds. the berries, branches, and leaves, are full of a thick glutinous milky juice. the only place that i have seen this was at cluff’s bay, in st. lucy's parish. this very seldom grows in any other part of the island. the