192 a choice manual, or. the dose is one or two spoonfuls morning and evening. the virtue of aqua marix. it is good for all infirmities of the spleen and to open the obstru¬ ctions thereof, it comforteth the xital parts, and is good against all passions ot the heart ; it preser¬ veth the meat in the stomach from putrefaction; it helpeth digesti¬ on, and expelleth wind. the dose is one spoonful at one time. the virtuer of flowert of rosemary. it is good against all infirmities of the stomach, and to supptess all offeusive fumes rising up from thence to the head, kceping thém down, and helpeth metnory, it opencth all stoppings of the liver and milt, it preventeth vertigo, scotomia, palfies, apoplexies, di¬ seafes of that kind arising trom cold humours, it breaketh witul, and easeth the cholick, the dose is r spoonsul at t time, the rare secrets in physick. 197 the virtues of spirit of mint. it is good for the stomach, and strengthens the retentive taculty, good against vomiting, and all pas¬ fions ot the heart, it comforteth the vital spirits, and is good against the consumption, it expelleth wind, and helpeth digestion, and is an infallible help for all melan¬ cholv. the dose is from oue to two spoontuls. the virtues of aqua theriacalis. it is good against all diseases of the spleen whatsoever; it pre¬ venteth and helpeth contagions, and sudden oppressions and qualms of the heart. t’he dose is one sçoonful to pre¬ vent, and 3 to the infected, who ospht to fveat after taking it. the virtues of spirits of saffron. it is good to comfort the vital spirits, passions, trembling, and pensiveness of the heart, and helpeth all malignity o pressing it, le- —- earty engush books online. copyrlght e 2019 proquezt llc mmages reproducedby courtesy of university of glesgow library