booe i. chap. viii. 109 their interest, succeeded so well, as to obtain the order of his ma¬ jesty in council before-mentioned; in consequence of which, seve¬ ral actions, that had been instituted, were stopped by noli prosequi; ande the complainants obligedi to sit down unredressed; but with this further agravation of hardship, that they had been entrapped, by the terms ofthe proclamation, to expend from two to three hun¬ dred pounds cach, in the vain hope of bringing the offenders to¬ justice. the proclamation had restricted the delinquents to such fees alone, * as had been established on proper authority." but they had no authority whatever, except their own will and plea¬ sure, for establisbing their cxorbitancies; thefe were even founded neither on usage nor prescription; for i have shewn, that they had not existed above twenty-one years. they had originally arifen by tristing deviations from the act of 1711; so small at first, per¬ haps, as not to deserve oppofition; or so modestly demanded, as not to provoke it: at length, they grew to surpass all limits, and were neither required, nor paid, without frequent altercation and. dispute. had this then any colour init of legal usage? the only proper authority, on which their just fees could be established, was some known law: the lawof 1711, which regulated and declared their fees, was this proper authority; there existed no other law for the purpose. with respect then to jamaica, it followe, that, by the very terms of the proclamation, they were tied down to de¬ mand and take no cther fees than what that law allowed them. is it not strange, therefore, that, in less chan a twelvemonth following this positive injunction, the opinioa and judgement of things fhould, upon an interested misrepresentation, be so totally changed and per¬ verted, as to suspend the effects of the proclamation; to concur with the parties in deeming the law obfolete; and, further, even to ratify such exactions, intemperate as they were beyond all bounds *t moving from their offices, and directing the attorney-gencral to proseeute, ali fuch officeis, or «.their deputies, ae fhould take or receive other than their legal fees." in july, 1765, his ex¬ cellency informed the attorncy-general, "that he must not preceed to trial of the informations a against the publie officers, as a copy of the report of the lords of tade and plantations, to the 4t jorda committee of the privy-council, was come to his hands; and that he daily expected, in con¬ *aquence thercot, an order from the king in couneil to himself, to put a stop to the profesutions." not long atter this, the attorney-gencral reccivel an oilicial letter srom his excellency, com¬ manding him & to enter nut: prosegui on all the informations; his maiesty’s order in council sor "that purpose being tien arrìved. of