is clear that laying on of hands was visibly done, outwardly apparent, simon saw it, surel y tben praier was vocal aud apparent, they both did pray; and not as some would have it,one did peay vocallie, and the other mentallie. but some may quærie further, did they lay on hands both at a time, viz. peter and john? truly the text is not clear in that particular, on¬ iie the text saith thus much, they laid on their hands on the samaritans, they, in the plurall number. i shall say no more as tothese cir¬ cumstances, i hope those which are judicious will not stand upon such niceties as these are, but racher will mind substantials, and so i shall desire the reader to make his progresse unto the next particular, and leave this unto consi¬ deration. chap. iiii, is concerning the ends wherefore laying on ofands it is to be adminisired upon bapti¬ zed believers. am not ignorant that the whole weight of ithe controversie lies in the clearing up of this point, and why? because there hath been a great deal of difference amongst the people of early english books ontine, copyright o 2019 proquest llc 37 ot god, and that as to the ends wherefore hands are to be laid upon baptized believers; and also the ends wheretore they were laid up¬ on baptized believets in fomer times;the con¬ tention about this point hath been so much the stronger, because of some contrarie ends which have been proposed by some in opposition un¬ to those right ends which i shall here lay down. and becaule we may observe a right order and method for the ptofit ot all, i shall therefore first lay down those ends which i judge to be of most strength and life for the maintenance of what is formerly laid down; and then i fhall come in the next place to o¬ verthrow those supposed ends which are brought in by others. in the first place i shall affirm, that one end wherefore persons are to have hands laid on them, is, that so they may be put into a fur¬ ther capacitie of going on to perfection. i woule not here be mistaken, i do not say o¬ thers who ha ve not subjecred unto this princi¬ ple are no waies in a capacitie of coing on to perfection; but this is that i do affirm, name¬ ly, that those baptized believers who have subjected unto this truth, are put into a further way of capacitie of going on to perfection, and therefore this is one end wherefore it is to be d3 sub¬ images reproduced by courtesy of christ church library, university of oxford