24 the rumpant ntory. a single person, something like a king, nolls craft, and crew, and power, to pass did bring, protector, or projeclor rather, levelling all to his lusts, a while sits proudly revelling the feather in his cap, the title -king hee calls, and yet the power still usurping¬ five y ears hee rul d, not reign'd, himself protecting by power and sword, all lust men else rejecting, in his own cratt god still avas him defeating, hee would and would not, so hee liv’d by cheating. calls three mock-parlaments, breaks up the thing ot his own meking, cause-hee ivould bee king; a pack of knaves were some, some could not give ipour grand laws, whiles charls his son did live. nolls fit torule, but no just title having, makes him unjust, and made him alwaies craving of all religions that made for his supporting, made all opinions stirrup his usurping a coach-box favour god him once was giving, on michaelmas day, to change his wicked living. state secretary in the coach doth sit, protector in the coach. box, where’s his wit? sometimes such frollicks mad into his brain were whymsied by his spirit, or his train; but this one act was like their actions all, one draws another, now noll gets the fall, yet god had mercy, though that noll had none, noll had some virtues, mercy hee lackt alone, one of his three mock-parlaments was sitting when as their head at the horse heels was flitting. some early english books online, copyright & 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library the rumpant story. some part o'th' army nol abroad doth send, for gold, to hisparioli, keeps to mend the rest, worms lumbert out, and others tremblint obey, yet most do hate his base dissembling. his major generals, semi-dragons sting the land, nols bashaws then deserv’d the string, for moneys sake the teus he in would bring, cause they fore him had murder d christ their king. he then pleads for the fews the scripture text for their conversion, though with his own he’s vext. he doth divines call up from severall places. to colour that design, his chaplains faces are not so braz’d as his, he turns the tem, he gets the gold, and then forsakes that crew. still mony lacks, for that his conscience bends his power and sword, and valor thereto tends, it must be had, if that the gods deny, the xcheron hee'l force, and devils try, mahes churches stables, a sacrilegious thing, this was the reformation nol did bring. brave man, where doth thy spirit sadly rumble? how in this world did thy aspirings tumble things upside down? valour with counsel swayd is good, grand nol makes all the world afraid. how many seem to bless when as they curse? nol cares not, so that hee have power and purse. how did his parlaments and himself agree? how did his several speeches made to three concur ? and wvith his recognition more, prayes, and protests, and swears, makes up the score. e he 29