(824) —— primo avul so non deficit alter aureus, & simili frondescit virga metallo. the whole complex of ingredients is known to consist only of vulgar aqua fortis ( abstracted from two parts of vitriol, and one of salt-peter) and quick-silver, and a small quantity of silver, far less than you may reap in a small time from those silver-sprigs, yet gain there is none, there being more expences blown away into smoak by continuance of fire in one month, than can be recover'd from this silver-harvest in a longer time. and though this seem but a toy, yet tis very philosophical, much informing the under¬ standing, however it enrich not the purse. for here we see crude mercu¬ ry manifestly turn'd into silver, notwithstanding 'tis deny'd by so ma¬ ny. so far this generous observer for this time; with the last part of whose relations may be compared numb. 39. p.779, 780. "tis hop'd, that hereafter more particulars of this curious traveller, concerning both the subject, he hath here begun to discourse of, and others of a philosophical nature, will be further comunicated by him. an account of some particulars, referring to those of jamaica, numb. 27. and 36, communicated by mr. norwood the younger, an eye¬ witness. 1. a llegators are shap’d like lizzards, being four footed they walk z a with their belly at distance from the ground, like lizzards. those of a full growth, have teeth like a mastiff, and a mouth of 11 foot wide. they are of so strong a scent, that you may smell them at a pretty distance, when they lie on the land. they may be master’d and kill’d by any, dex¬ trous and skill d in the way of doing it, which is, that a man be arm’d with a good long tronchion, and fall upon them side-wayes; for doing it front¬ wayes, they are too nimble for the assailant, and may, by leaping upon him, ( which they can do the le- gth of their whole body) spoil him: but if he iay his club on them against their shoulder, and behind their fore-feet, and iue them there, the beast being thereby rendred urable to move, is eafily subdued, 2. tortoises, if their blood be heated, they dye, and if they sh ill live, their blood must not be hotter, than the element, they live in. 3. the chego’s, described by ligon, are not felt to have got in o the body, ill a week after, they will breed in great numbers, and shut them¬ felves