of india in generall, &c. chart they hold the worldto be created, comuptible, round, ruled by the high god. ", ter they imagme to haue beene the beginning of making the world; and thx becd, the foure elements, there is a fifth naturt, whereof the heauen and surres cortt they intreate of the immortalitie of the soule, and of the torments in hell, andmm such like matten. 1 the indiaa garmana. ihe t gemaκes, anothet order ofreligious or learnedmen, æc honordmmoxs them: espẽcial y such of themas liue in the woods, and of the woods, bothforde dict of those wilde frults, and their habit of the barkes of trees, not acquainted eil baccbus or uenu any more then with ceres. they speake not to the kings, wbent¬ uke counsell of them, but by messengers; and doc pacifie the angrie godi, n h lmo fed, by their holinesse. next in honor to these, ire certaine mendieams, whichliue of rice mdbab which any man at the first asking giueth them, together with entertainment inod¬ houses. these professe skill in phyfiche, and to remedie diseases, wounds, and slenhy, very constant in labour and hardship. others there are, inchanters and diuinen, n sters of ceremonies about the dead; which wander thorow townes and cities. 50 thert are more ciuill and secular, in their life prosessiog like pietie and holinesse. mo¬ men also are admitted vnto the fello wship of their studies in this philosophie, ne o their beda. aristobuluu writeth, that he sa w rwo of these brachauez, the one mnou man shauen, the other yong with long haire, which sometimes resorted to the mula place, and werc honored *counsellors, and freely toole what they pleased, ot uy thing there to be sold, for their sustenance. they were annointed with sesamineonlt wherewith, and with hony, they tempered their bread. they were admittedto α¬ i practise of anders table, where they gaue lessons of pauence!: and aster going to a placenet¬ prescribed pa- off, the old man lying downe with his face vpward, sustained the sunne and shoum tience. m the lile terrible violence. the yonger standing on one foot, held in both his handse percrd woodof three cubits listed vp, and shifted fette, as the other was wearie: and sou continued euery day. the yong man returned home asterward, but the old min la¬ lowed the xing, with whom he changed his habit and life, for which, when as leuu by some reproued, he answered that he had fulfilled the sortie yeares exercise, mid he had vowed. onesicritu saith, that alerander, hearing of some religious obscruma which went naked, and exercised themselues tomuch hardship, and would* not ee¬ stubbomnesse to others, but would bid men, if they would haue any thing with them, to comu is yet in their jeghier. them; sent him vnto them, who found fifteene ot them twentie furlongs fromtæc¬ tie, each of them obseruing his owne gesture of sitting, standing, er lyingnaked, nl not stirring till sun-setting, in that vnsupportable heate, at which time they retumd iuto the citie. calan was one ot them. he asterward followed alexanden into pa¬ sia, where beginning to be fiche, he caused a great pile or frame of wood to be midt, wherein he placed himselfe in a golden chaire, and caused fire to be put to, in whichk was voluntarily consumed, telling (if they tell true) that he would meet alexaudu u a rlim. var. babylon, the place satall to alexauders death. ælian" " saith, mhat this was dox bawb.stap.é. ina suburb of babylon, and that the fire was of cedar, cypresse, mirile. laurell, al other swect woods: and after he had persormed his daily exercise of running, hepl¬ ced himselse in the middest, crowned with the leaues of reedes, the sunnc shmning a him, which he worshipped. this adoration was the figne whichhe gaue to the t¬ cedonians to kindle the fire, in which he abode without any stirring till hæ was del, alexander him selse admiring, and preserring this victory of calanu besore allha owne. this calanus told oneficritus of a golden world, where meale was a plem¬ full as dust, and fountaines streamed milke, hony, wine and oyle. which countiey, w men turned into wantonnesse, iupiter altered and detained, imposing a lise oshardnist and labour, which while men follo wed, they enioyed abundance; but now that ura begin to surfet and gtow disobedient, there is danger of vniuersail destruction. who he had thus spoken, he bade him, if he would heare further, strip himselfe, and lye u¬¬ 6 am. calleth ked vpon these stones. rut mandanis, o another of them, reproued calanu ior hu him dandaus. harshnes, and, commending alexander for his loue to learning, said that they mured ha-- their bodies to labour for the confimmation of their minds against passions. forbissz kedas 454