184 the suffering, or, passive conscience. cap.13. some were banged, some beaded, some wert — burned, some dromnea, some devoured of wilde eccl. hist. 45-cap.1. beasts, some pull'd in pieces by men more sa¬ vage then beasts, yet they did all bear it, and rejoyced they suffered for conseience, and sa god. attalut and alexander were twice bayted with wilde beasts, to be torn in pieces by them, (as eusebius reports) attalus esca¬ ping the beasts, was reserved to other tor¬ ments, to be burnt to death in an iron chair, heated red-fire-hot, yet did hee bear all. socrat-hist. adacedonius, tbeodulus, and tatianus laid 13-cap.13 upon a gredyron, and broiled to death; yet did they bear it. marcas arethusiut was stripped naked, then had his bodie all over daubed with broth, butter, and honey, then hung up in a cage in the hot scorching sun, to be caten up wich flies, and stung to death with masps, yet did he suffer all rather then give one half-peny to re-edifie that idol temple in his diocess, which he had former¬ ly plucked down. tobe eaten up with fliu, and stung with wasps he did account farre teadoret, more delirable, that he might preserye his hb.3.capeς· conscience in puritie and peace, then to bec eaten up of horrour, and stung mith horneis, if to preserve his life, he had delivered up his conscience. there were many christians together stopt up in lahes, or caves artifici¬ ally made close, which lakes, or ditches werc filled with a companie of dormise, kept hungrie to gnaw and feed upon the poor christians, they all the while bound hand and the suffering, or, passive couscience. 185 and foot, that they could not kcep offthose cap.12 hunger-starved creatures, which were kept mug.cent. vithout meat also purposely, that they 4.cap.3¬ might fasten upon the bodies of those godly ex ibeode¬ men; which singring and miserable death rete, they under-went, yet was not their faith and patience at all born down, saith the histo¬ rian. they chose much rather to lie in such a lahe artificially stopt, and to be caten un alive with those vermin, their conscience being preserved, then to yeeld up this fort of conscience for fear of any earthly torments, to be eaten iq ubile alive with guilt and horrour of conscience. and when dead, to be bound hand and foot, and cast into an in¬ fernal lake of fire and brimstone, eternally stopt up, there to be conversant with filthy spirits, and to be caten up with those hellissi furies. yea, to make an end, for it is impossible to mention all, lactantius saith not oncly the men among the cbristians, and thosc of stronger years and hearts, but even our women, and little children (saith he) have lairmes, & robusti endured all torments, and been too hard upuit vi¬ for their tormentors; no rack, no fire could ri ejusmodi fach so much as a groan from them: which lacerstio¬ the stoutest theeves and malefactors amon nes perfene nequeunt, their persecutors could not undergo, but exclammt, they would roare and crie out through im-& gemitus patience, and disabilitie to endure them. eduz; nostri au¬ un (ut de viris taceam) pueri, & mulierculɇ tortores suot taciti vin¬ cat, & expremere illis gemitum nec ignis poiest laict i.s.cap.13. but early english books online, copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library