10 this medicine. price four shillings the bottle 4.a vi. pulvis antifebriticus noster: or, our general febrifuge. n admirable pouder against fevers of all sorts: a few doses thereof (with the use of the other medicines) tales off the fever be¬ yond expectation. 2. it is something sudorifick, but for the most part works downwards first, and af¬ terwards provokes sweat; it is a prevalent remedy against putrid fevers, measles, small-pox, ca¬ lenture, spotted-fever, and other venemous disea¬ ses. 3. it is good against the green-sickness, drop¬ sie, melancholly, seurvy, jaundice, and its profita¬ ble in hectick fevers. 4. it resists putrifaction, fortifies the stomach, corrects crudities,purifies the blood, cleanses the bowels of filth and viscous hu¬ mours, by a gentle purging way. the dose and manner of using it. 1.t et the patient drink plentifully of our aq. vitæ mag. according to the directions in its place: give a dose of pouder in the morning and at evening for 8, 12, or 16, days as you see occasion, more or less; you may give it in form of a bolus in a little marmalade of quinces, or pulp of pruens, jelly of harts-horn; or it may be exhibited in a glass of canary, or a spoonful of syr, of saffron, or clove-gillyflowers. vii.aqua 4 early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc lmages reproduced by courtesy of british library vii. 11 aqua ruba mineralis. s an excellent medicine of a preservative nature, 1 of great benefit in the plague, and other con¬ tagious distempers; particularly against the burn¬ ing thirst in fevers: good against coughs, short¬ ness of breath, ptysick, the diseases of throat and mouth; as angimas, strumas, inflammations ot the pallate, or uvula of the mouth, thrush in children, quinsies, and such like inflammations; as also for an unsavory breath. it's use and dose. or thrushes or sore mouths in sucking children, or any foulness ofthe tongue, or throat, 2, ,or 4 drops dropped into a little white-wine, or plantain-water, sweetned with a little honey of roses, and so drink it, and wash their mouthes with the same; for people of riper years, they must gargle their mouths with it; it being composed to a gargarism with white-wine, or plantain-water. and dulcified with syrup of mulberries, or honey of roses; often taking from ó drops to 40, or 5o, in beer, white-wine, or plantain-water. for the burning thirst in fevers, give from ó drops to 40 or 5o, or half a spoonful in so much beer, or ale, that it may tast sharpish of the medicine; if the fever be violent, it may be given 3 or 4 times ins or ó hours space; but in continual fevers it may be given as often as the party desires to drink, obser¬ ving in such cases to tate often to procure sweat, of my elix. magnum cordialis, and at night to tase b a