116 natures exphieution, eusorbium must do vhat cochipils will not : opium must do what let¬ tice posset will not; but first it must be mixed up into a ridieulous teuda. num; colocyntida &: scammοην must effect what manna, sent & rhubart will not : o brave doctors! o la¬ pita hellboro digna! yet you are the men thit cry out against poy¬ sons. as though scammohy, colocyutide, elaterium, esula, euphorbium, lale¬ pium, bryony, asarum, (aaron, helle¬ bore, and such like, as cambogia, &. were not absoluye poysons. o but they are tempered by the art of the: skilful doctor. good words cost no money, i wishit prove so. but i pray mr. doctor ifit be soz what means the bleating of the sheep t i mean, what is the renson your medi¬ caments retain their vomiting quali¬ ty with convulsions of the stomack which have hellebore mixed] and their purging qualicy wich gripings and and helmont's vindication. and such symptomes that have scam¬ monyrmixed t thus you use to gor¬ rect poysons, thus you intend to cure diseases. at inervam cnhßißintam! rut as a jugler when his feats are. dismovered, soyyou by this means be¬ como fidiculous :rnou know the se¬ rious check the frog in lsop re¬ coivodo utho as you do, would pre¬ tend tobe a doctor, cur tibi ipsi la¬ bra livida non curus? couglis, colds, murres, hoarse¬ nesses, head-aches, tooth-aches, and the like; nay bft-times the simple itch:and scab, doth reproach you at home, and outdare you abroad, and what is your excuse: they are trivial cases. by which it appears, that if other distasns, siould become as commont as khese, they would all be too mean for te doctors reverence, and good renson, because they are above his abilities. though you name mountebanks with 37 early english books online, copyright e 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library