478 bull ot pope cu¬ ment. charter¬ boust, chnebyard prepared ef the poort of poore, sotore¬ maine for tver¬ vie forte fryery cart.. suburbs without the nals. in this plot of ground, there was (in who were fetched thither usually ih a that ycere) more than soooo.persons close cart, bayled over and covered buried, as i have read in the charters] with blacke, having a plaine white of edmard the third. crosse thwarting, and at the fore-end also i have seene and read an in-a s. iohns crosse without; and within a scription fixed on a stone crosse,some-bell ringing by shaking of the cart. time standing in the same church-yard wherby the same might be heard when and having these words: it passed, & this was called the fryery anno domini, 1349. regnante magna cart, which belonged to s. iohns, and pestilentia, consecratam fuit hoc cœmite- lad the priviledge of sanctuary. rium, in que & infra septa præsentis mo¬ in this charter-house werethe monu¬ nasterii, sepulta fuerunt mortuorun ments of the said sir walter manny, and pora, plusquam quinquaginta millia, præ¬gret his wife, marmaduhe lumley ter alia multa abhinc usque ad præsens, laurence bromley, knight, sir edward quorum animabus propitietur deus, a¬ men. hederset, knight, sir william manny, knight, dame tohan borough, iohn dore, in consideration of the number of want water, knight, robert olney, es¬ christian people here buried, the said sir walter manny caused first a chap¬ pell to be builded, where (for the space of twenty three yeares) offerings were made: and it is tobe noted, that above 100000. bodies of christian people had in that church-yard beene buried, for the said kuight had purchased that place for the buriallof poore people, quirc, katharine, daughter sir william babiegton, knight, blanch, daughter to hugh wvaterton, xatharine, wife to iohn at poot, daughter and heire to richard lacie, wvilliam ranlin, sit iohn len¬ thaine, and dame margaret his wife, daughter to iohn fray, iohn peahe es¬ quire, william baron, and william baron, esquires, sir thomas thamites knight, travailers, and other that were disea-philip morgan, bishop of ely, 1434. sed, toremaine for ever; whercupon, an order was taken, for the avoyding of contentionbetweene the parsons of churches and that house, to wit, that the bodies should bee had unto the church where they were parishioners, or dyed, and after the funerall service done, had to the place where they should be buried. and the yeere 1371. he caused there to bee founded an house of carthusian monkes, which he willed to be called the salutation, and that one of the monkes should be called prior, and he gave them the sayd place of 13. acres and a rod of land, with the chappel, and houses there builded for their ha¬ bitation. he also gave them the three acres ot land, lying without the wals on the north part, betwixt the lands of the abbot of westminster, and the lands of the prior ot saint iohn; which three acres being purchased, inclosed, and dedicated by ralph stratford, bi¬ shopof london, as is aforeshewed, re¬ mained till our time, by the name of pardon church-pard, & served for bury¬ ing of such as desperately ended their lives, or were executed for felonies, inthe cloystrie, bartholomem rede, knight, maior of london, buried 1505. sir iohn popham, &c. this monastery, at the suppression in the 29. of henry the 8. was valued at 642.4’.4.d. halfe penny yeerely. here now i find fit time, to commend to all succeeding posterity, the duely de¬ served praises ot that truely worthy (& never to be forgotten) gentleman, ma¬ ster thomas sutton, the right phœnix of charity in our times. this late dissol¬ ved charter-house, by west smithfield, belonging then tothe right honorable thomas earle of suffolke, after lord treasurer of england, is fufficiently knowne to bec a very large and goodly mansion, beautified with spacious gar¬ dens, walkes, orchards and other pleasures, enriched with divers depen¬ dencies of lands and tenements ther¬ to belonging, and very aptly seated for wholesome ayre, and many other commodities. all which commodious¬ nesse of situation, and largenesse of cir¬ cuit, gave occasion to this well-minded gentleman master sutton,to affect that house, as the onely place, whereon to build the nor. thie re¬ mébranc ofm. tla au sulta i havẽ uuely set downe all this, asit vas deli¬ vered met in vritieg by a gen¬ deman of good vorthand credit mea mpose" haiy" uiif lenbet braddd toteme te hof i. recto¬ mbse sort ne annso mrof ful dan lul, suburbs xithout the ials. build the foundation of his religious charter-house, which he had formerly purpose. for, among other his chri¬ stian determinations, hee had former¬ ly intended to build an house at hal¬ lingbury bouchers in essex, to be an hos¬ pitall for such poore men and children as he himselfe (in his life time, or fu¬ ture governors for the same tobce de¬ puted) should thinke fit to bee lodged. and relieved there: also, for a schoole¬ master and vsher, to teach children to reade and write, and instruct them in the latine aud grecke grammar: with a learned divine likewise to preach the word of god to them all, and a master beside, to governe all those people belonging to that house. tothis blessed end and purpose, hee had procured (by eamest suit ) pouer by an act of parliament, to build fuch an hospitall in the towne of halling¬ burp bouchers, and that the same shoui d be named, the hospitall of king iames, founded in hallingbury in the coun¬ tie of essex, at the humble petition, intended at hallingbury: wherero the king readily yeelded, pcing graciously attected to so charitable a worke, and granted his letters patems to the same effect. and the right reverend father in god, geerge, archbishop of cantur. burie, thomas lord ellesmere, lord chancellor of england; robert lord high treasurer ot england, iobnthe e¬ lect bithop of london; lancelet bishop of ely, sir edmard cohe, knight, chiere lustice of the common pleas, sir thomas foster, knight, one of his majesties lustices of the common pleas; six heury hobard, kuight and baronet, attourñey generall; iohn o¬ verall, deane ot pauls in london; gcorge mountaine, deane ofwestminster, henry thuriby, esquire, one of the masters of the chancerie; geffrey nigh¬ tingale, esquire; richard sutton, ef¬ quire; iohn lam gentleman; thomas bromne, gentleman, and the master of the hospitall of king iames, founded in and at the onely costs and charges of the charter.house, within the county of thomas sutton, esquite: appointing middlesex, at the humble petition, and also such honourable, reverend and] the onely costs and charges of thomas worthy persons, as by the said act ot parliament were nominated and ap¬ pointed, to bee the first and instant go¬ vernors ot the lands, possessions, sutton, esquire, were elected, nomi¬ nated and ordained by the kitigs most excellent majestie in his letters pa¬ tents gtanted, to bee the first gover¬ goods and reveneues of the said hos-] nors ot the lands, posseffons, revenues pitall. and goode of che fore-said hospitall, but asterward, upon more grounded] and continuall maintenance thereof in deliberation, and finding this goodly house of the charter-house, tobee much forme following. all his mannors and lordfhips of more convenient for the purpose, than] southminster, norton, little hallingbury that tobe builded at hallingbury could ] alias hallingbuty bouchers, and much¬ be: hee became an earnest suiter to the] stanbridge, in the county of essex. earle of suffolbe, to purchase thar all those his mannors and lord¬ house of him, acquaintg hmips of bastingthorpe, alias, bustingthorpe with the alteration of his minde con- and dunnesby in the couniy of lin¬ cemning hallingbury, and his earnest de- colne, sire to make the charter-house his hos¬ pitall. the earle being honourably enclined to so god y a motion, ibe mat¬ ter sustained the lesse debating between all those bis mamors and lord¬ (hips of salthorp, alias, saltrop, alias, haltrop, chilton and blackgrove, in the couniy of wilts. and alsõ all those his them: but the price being concluded] lands & pasture-grounds, called black¬ on, the bargaine and sale was assured. the summe disbursed for this purpose, amcunted to 13000, l.which was paid dovne in hand, before the ensealing oi the conveyance. then he became suiter againe to his grove, contayning by estimation 200. acres of pasture, with the apputte¬ nances in blackgrove and irougliton, in the said county of wilts. and also in that his mannot of missenden otherwile called the mannor of missunden majestie, to performe all that at the] in the parishes of wroughton, ly dierde and 479 thefia cover¬ nors ap¬ pointed by letters patents, of king iamechis hofpitall founded in the chartu¬ bouse. the land, made over by master suiten for the main¬ tenance ot thesaid hospicall for ever, in the ceunty et essex. la the ccuaget lncolne. in the countyo milts. lands & pesture grounds inu'ius. in the counties of cam¬ tridge, e sex and middusez early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of harvard university library