of bathes. 71 30 directions for health. sture, and hastneth on old age and death. sperme or seedé of generation is the onely comiorter of nature, uhich wilfully shed or lost, harmeth a man more, then if hec should bleed forty times as much¬ teach me how wiuelesse batchelers, and hus¬ bandlesse maides, should driue avay their vn¬ cleane dreaming of venery at nights. first, they must refraine from wine, and ve¬ nerous imaginations, and not vse tolye in soft down beds. secondly, they must addictthem selues to read the bible and morall philoso¬ phy. thirdly, they must exercise often theit bodies. lastly, if none of these preuaile, let them vse the seed of aonus castus, in englist parke seed, and they snall feele a strange effect to follow. of bathes. chap. 5. it'hat is the vse of bathes? old and naturall bathes are greatly expe dient for men subiect to rheumes, drop sies and gouts. neither can i'easily expresse i words how much good cold bathes doc brin early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of folger shakespeare library vnto them that vse them: howbeit with this caueat i commend bathes, to wit, that no man distempered through venery, gluttony: watching, fasting, or through violent exer¬ cise, presume to enter into them. is bathing of the head wholsome? you shall finde it wonderfull expedient, if you bath your head foure times in the yeare, and that with,hot lee made of ashes. after which, you must cause one presently to poure two or three gallons of cold fountaine water vpon your head. then let your head be dryed with cold towels. which sodaine pouring downe of cold water, althoughit doth mighti¬ ly terrifie you, yet neuertheles, it is very good, for therby the naturall heate is stirred within the body, baldnesse is kept backe, and the me¬ mory is quickned. in like manner, washing of hands often, doth much auaile the eye¬ sight. how shall a man bathe himselfe in winter time mhen maters be frozen? in winter time this kinde of artificiall ba¬ thing is very expedient and wholsome: take two pound of turpentine, foure ounces ofthe iuyce of wormwood and wild mallowes, onc ounce