ticlnsis. 1cot.j.31. 59 gods vord tbe selsest gaide. aumes luts theun, buu bimit huted : the tea¬ son tollowett, not fot iniury but fot in¬ nocency, not for salthood but for truth: he testisied that the workes thereof vere euill. what is the cause that true pictie and prounded sincerityis ot so smal account, but because the uorld of the vnregent¬ ratè lieth in wichednea, aud saith to car¬ nall affections bringeth little content¬ ment? how can ic be chat oppressours, extortioners, vsuters, these idolatroud vvorldlings, together with thousands ot delicious prodigals, mhould entertaine the gospell: since z̃accleus must diuide hit goods, mathew must bid fare tvell to his place of customary receipt; yea the people of god must vse this world as if the lite of they vsed it not? how hard therefore vill faith very dit-it be for such as trust in vncertaine ri¬ geuk tona¬ tuie. ches, to subiect themselues to this lise os saith? may not gods ministers tale vp a iamentarion, what happy tidiugs from the word of faith which we preachi how is the way to cuerlasting blisse plainly beaten foorth, yet how few delipht to wallce init? how sluggish are out com¬ non prosessours, chat carmot watch one hourc? icbay.7. early english books online, copyright o 2019 proquest llc images reproduced by courtesy of british library gudlinor d'ibe safest goile. 35 houre? and hou faithlesse are those backe¬ fliding hypoctices, as il the vachangeable poffellour of lseauen aud eardl were va¬ faithfuil, or vnable to recompence aud fully reward his faithfull people? thus ve see, that streight is the way, and smnall is tht number that goit. e¬ phraim is an vnruly heifer that will not be tamed. euer haue guds ssints bens like the shaking of an oliue after the vin¬ tage. wicked men are mad men, they vill not be ordered; they are dease men, they will not heare, charme the char¬ mer nener fo wifely. if thau be sinne uhich is not donc of saith, how wofull uuill it be uith the grerest numoer, vho neithor know nor boleeuc, being blindo and dissolute: hauing from theit nonagɇ old n¬ua ll to their old age wandred from the vaies men arc very milerable, foc ef god, being seuen fold more the chil¬ ibey xe full dren of hell then they were in their mo¬ offinne¬ thers wombes? if all actions that want saith be sins, how many are the fias of those who vere neuer enlightened with the kuowledge of god? my text harh driuen me into such a uarrou stteiglit, & so paled me in, thar l cauabr ger liberty eithet to licence the noueltiet as che a thenians,